Math anxiety negatively relates to math performance. This negative
relationship may be exacerbated in low-progress math learners. However, there
are limited studies on math anxiety among low progress learners in a
paradoxically high performing education system like Singapore. To fill this
research gap, this research analysed the anxiety profiles of 151 students who
were in the math learning support intervention program administered by the
Ministry of Education, Singapore (MOE). We examined the complex relationship
centred in math anxiety with relevant variables such as demographic
characteristics, working memory and math performance. Limitations and future
directions are discussed.

Mathematical equations are an important part of dissemination and
communication of scientific information. Students, however, often feel
challenged in reading and understanding math content and equations. With the
development of the Web, students are posting their math questions online.
Nevertheless, constructing a concise math headline that gives a good
description of the posted detailed math question is nontrivial. In this study,
we explore a novel summarization task denoted as geNerating A concise Math
hEadline from a detailed math question (NAME). Compared to conventional
summarization tasks, this task has two extra and essential constraints: 1)
Detailed math questions consist of text and math equations which require a
unified framework to jointly model textual and mathematical information; 2)
Unlike text, math equations contain semantic and structural features, and both
of them should be captured together. To address these issues, we propose
MathSum, a novel summarization model which utilizes a pointer mechanism
combined with a multi-head attention mechanism for mathematical representation
augmentation. The pointer mechanism can either copy textual tokens or math
tokens from source questions in order to generate math headlines. The
multi-head attention mechanism is designed to enrich the representation of math
equations by modeling and integrating both its semantic and structural
features. For evaluation, we collect and make available two sets of real-world
detailed math questions along with human-written math headlines, namely
EXEQ-300k and OFEQ-10k. Experimental results demonstrate that our model
(MathSum) significantly outperforms state-of-the-art models for both the
EXEQ-300k and OFEQ-10k datasets.

In this short note we provide clarification to the comments made in Z. Angew.
Math. Phys. (2018) 69:64 on our work "Finiteness of corner vortices" [ Z.
Angew. Math. Phys. (2018) 69:37].

The key difference between math as math and math in science is that in
science we blend our physical knowledge with our knowledge of math. This
blending changes the way we put meaning to math and even to the way we
interpret mathematical equations. Learning to think about physics with math
instead of just calculating involves a number of general scientific thinking
skills that are often taken for granted (and rarely taught) in physics classes.
In this paper, I give an overview of my analysis of these additional skills. I
propose specific tools for helping students develop these skills in subsequent
papers.

"Is math useful?" might sound as a trick question. And it is. Of course math
is useful, we live in a data-filled world and every aspect of life is totally
entwined with math applications, both trivial and subtle applications, of both
basic and advanced math. But we need to ask once again that question, in order
to truly understand what is math useful for and what being useful means.
Moreover, is it knowledge of math useful for a class of specialists, or for
political leaders or for all people at large? Being more on a concrete level,
why does math need to have a central role in education?
  Each section will be titled by a question. And each section will not give an
answer, but -- at least I hope -- provide some food for tought to the reader,
in order to try to come up with his or her own answers.
  I feel that these kind of questions are at home in a book devoted to the
interplays between mathematics and culture: what is the space we should give to
math in culture and what is math's role in becoming a complete citizen?

Mathematical content is a valuable information source and retrieving this
content has become an important issue. This paper compares two searching
strategies for math expressions: presentation-based and content-based
approaches. Presentation-based search uses state-of-the-art math search system
while content-based search uses semantic enrichment of math expressions to
convert math expressions into their content forms and searching is done using
these content-based expressions. By considering the meaning of math
expressions, the quality of search system is improved over presentation-based
systems.

Math anxiety is a highly prevalent problem in education that has consistently
shown to lead to poor math performance. This study sought to investigate
whether certain behaviours are predictive of math anxiety among students. This
study involved elementary school students who were low-progressing in math, and
is part of an educational intervention program. Ten classifications types of
behavioural indicators were identified, such as counting out loud. A multiple
linear regression was conducted, identifying three behavioural observations
that were positively and significantly associated with their math anxiety.
Implications and limitations are discussed.

This is a revised version of the preprint which has been available
electronically for a while. The paper will now appear in J. Ramanujan Math.
Soc.

An error in the paper [J. Math. Phys. 43, 6343 (2002); math-ph/0207009] is
corrected. Further explanation is given.

The expression for $\hat{\kappa}$ in J. Math. Phys. 36, 3191 (1995) was
miswritten. The correct expression is given.

Mathematics is a critical part of much scientific research. Physics in
particular weaves math extensively into its instruction beginning in high
school. Despite much research on the learning of both physics and math, the
problem of how to effectively include math in physics in a way that reaches
most students remains unsolved. In this paper, we suggest that a fundamental
issue has received insufficient exploration: the fact that in science, we don't
just use math, we make meaning with it in a different way than mathematicians
do. In this reflective essay, we explore math as a language and consider the
language of math in physics through the lens of cognitive linguistics. We begin
by offering a number of examples that show how the use of math in physics
differs from the use of math as typically found in math classes. We then
explore basic concepts in cognitive semantics to show how humans make meaning
with language in general. The critical elements are the roles of embodied
cognition and interpretation in context. Then we show how a theoretical
framework commonly used in physics education research, resources, is coherent
with and extends the ideas of cognitive semantics by connecting embodiment to
phenomenological primitives and contextual interpretation to the dynamics of
meaning making with conceptual resources, epistemological resources, and
affect. We present these ideas with illustrative case studies of students
working on physics problems with math and demonstrate the dynamical nature of
student reasoning with math in physics. We conclude with some thoughts about
the implications for instruction.

The generalized Hyers--Ulam--Rassias stability of generalized derivations on
unital Banach algebras into Banach bimodules is established.

Let $I$ be a monomial almost complete intersection ideal of a polynomial
algebra $S$ over a field. Then Stanley's Conjecture holds for $S/I$ and $I$.

In this paper, we present an innovative process-oriented math process reward
model called \textbf{Math-Shepherd}, which assigns a reward score to each step
of math problem solutions. The training of Math-Shepherd is achieved using
automatically constructed process-wise supervision data, breaking the
bottleneck of heavy reliance on manual annotation in existing work. We explore
the effectiveness of Math-Shepherd in two scenarios: 1) \textit{Verification}:
Math-Shepherd is utilized for reranking multiple outputs generated by Large
Language Models (LLMs); 2) \textit{Reinforcement Learning}: Math-Shepherd is
employed to reinforce LLMs with step-by-step Proximal Policy Optimization
(PPO). With Math-Shepherd, a series of open-source LLMs demonstrates
exceptional performance. For instance, the step-by-step PPO with Math-Shepherd
significantly improves the accuracy of Mistral-7B (77.9\%$\to$84.1\% on GSM8K
and 28.6\%$\to$33.0\% on MATH). The accuracy can be further enhanced to 89.1\%
and 43.5\% on GSM8K and MATH with the verification of Math-Shepherd,
respectively. We believe that automatic process supervision holds significant
potential for the future evolution of LLMs.

The math abilities of large language models can represent their abstract
reasoning ability. In this paper, we introduce and open-source our math
reasoning LLMs InternLM-Math which is continue pre-trained from InternLM2. We
unify chain-of-thought reasoning, reward modeling, formal reasoning, data
augmentation, and code interpreter in a unified seq2seq format and supervise
our model to be a versatile math reasoner, verifier, prover, and augmenter.
These abilities can be used to develop the next math LLMs or self-iteration.
InternLM-Math obtains open-sourced state-of-the-art performance under the
setting of in-context learning, supervised fine-tuning, and code-assisted
reasoning in various informal and formal benchmarks including GSM8K, MATH,
Hungary math exam, MathBench-ZH, and MiniF2F. Our pre-trained model achieves
30.3 on the MiniF2F test set without fine-tuning. We further explore how to use
LEAN to solve math problems and study its performance under the setting of
multi-task learning which shows the possibility of using LEAN as a unified
platform for solving and proving in math. Our models, codes, and data are
released at \url{https://github.com/InternLM/InternLM-Math}.

This is a copy of the article by the same authors published in Duke Math. J.
(1994).

A proof of the Quadratic Reciprocity Law is presented using a Lemma of Gauss,
the theory of finite fields and the Frobenius automorfism.

A primary goal of physics is to create mathematical models that allow both
predictions and explanations of physical phenomena. We weave maths extensively
into our physics instruction beginning in high school, and the level and
complexity of the maths we draw on grows as our students progress through a
physics curriculum. Despite much research on the learning of both physics and
math, the problem of how to successfully teach most of our students to use
maths in physics effectively remains unsolved. A fundamental issue is that in
physics, we don't just use maths, we think about the physical world with it. As
a result, we make meaning with math-ematical symbology in a different way than
mathematicians do. In this talk we analyze how developing the competency of
mathematical modeling is more than just "learning to do math" but requires
learning to blend physical meaning into mathematical representations and use
that physical meaning in solving problems. Examples are drawn from across the
curriculum.

We give an elementary proof of a question asked by Fouvry, Kowalski and
Michel on the solutions of the equation $x+\frac{1}{x}+y+\frac{1}{y}+t=0$ over
a finite field, using the results obtained by highschool students during their
participation at the maths tournament "Tournoi Fran\c{c}ais des Jeunes
Math\'ematiciennes et Math\'ematiciens".
  Nous pr\'esentons une d\'emonstration \'el\'ementaire d'une question pos\'ee
par Fouvry, Kowalski et Michel sur les solutions de l'\'equation
$x+\frac{1}{x}+y+\frac{1}{y}+t=0$ sur un corps fini, en utilisant des
r\'esultats obtenus par des lyc\'eens lors de leur participation au Tournoi
Fran\c{c}ais des Jeunes Math\'ematiciennes et Math\'ematiciens.

Although the scientific digital library is growing at a rapid pace,
scholars/students often find reading Science, Technology, Engineering, and
Mathematics (STEM) literature daunting, especially for the
math-content/formula. In this paper, we propose a novel problem, ``mathematics
content understanding'', for cyberlearning and cyberreading. To address this
problem, we create a Formula Evolution Map (FEM) offline and implement a novel
online learning/reading environment, PDF Reader with Math-Assistant (PRMA),
which incorporates innovative math-scaffolding methods. The proposed
algorithm/system can auto-characterize student emerging math-information need
while reading a paper and enable students to readily explore the formula
evolution trajectory in FEM. Based on a math-information need, PRMA utilizes
innovative joint embedding, formula evolution mining, and heterogeneous graph
mining algorithms to recommend high quality Open Educational Resources (OERs),
e.g., video, Wikipedia page, or slides, to help students better understand the
math-content in the paper. Evaluation and exit surveys show that the PRMA
system and the proposed formula understanding algorithm can effectively assist
master and PhD students better understand the complex math-content in the class
readings.

Collaborative editing questions and answers plays an important role in
quality control of Mathematics Stack Exchange which is a math Q&A Site. Our
study of post edits in Mathematics Stack Exchange shows that there is a large
number of math-related edits about latexifying formulas, revising LaTeX and
converting the blurred math formula screenshots to LaTeX sequence. Despite its
importance, manually editing one math-related post especially those with
complex mathematical formulas is time-consuming and error-prone even for
experienced users. To assist post owners and editors to do this editing, we
have developed an edit-assistance tool, MathLatexEdit for formula
latexification, LaTeX revision and screenshot transcription. We formulate this
formula editing task as a translation problem, in which an original post is
translated to a revised post. MathLatexEdit implements a deep learning based
approach including two encoder-decoder models for textual and visual LaTeX edit
recommendation with math-specific inference. The two models are trained on
large-scale historical original-edited post pairs and synthesized
screenshot-formula pairs. Our evaluation of MathLatexEdit not only demonstrates
the accuracy of our model, but also the usefulness of MathLatexEdit in editing
real-world posts which are accepted in Mathematics Stack Exchange.

We introduce Augmented Math, a machine learning-based approach to authoring
AR explorable explanations by augmenting static math textbooks without
programming. To augment a static document, our system first extracts
mathematical formulas and figures from a given document using optical character
recognition (OCR) and computer vision. By binding and manipulating these
extracted contents, the user can see the interactive animation overlaid onto
the document through mobile AR interfaces. This empowers non-technical users,
such as teachers or students, to transform existing math textbooks and handouts
into on-demand and personalized explorable explanations. To design our system,
we first analyzed existing explorable math explanations to identify common
design strategies. Based on the findings, we developed a set of augmentation
techniques that can be automatically generated based on the extracted content,
which are 1) dynamic values, 2) interactive figures, 3) relationship
highlights, 4) concrete examples, and 5) step-by-step hints. To evaluate our
system, we conduct two user studies: preliminary user testing and expert
interviews. The study results confirm that our system allows more engaging
experiences for learning math concepts.

Math anxiety is a clinical pathology impairing cognitive processing in
math-related contexts. Originally thought to affect only inexperienced,
low-achieving students, recent investigations show how math anxiety is vastly
diffused even among high-performing learners. This review of data-informed
studies outlines math anxiety as a complex system that: (i) cripples
well-being, self-confidence and information processing on both conscious and
subconscious levels, (ii) can be transmitted by social interactions, like a
pathogen, and worsened by distorted perceptions, (iii) affects roughly 20% of
students in 63 out of 64 worldwide educational systems but correlates weakly
with academic performance, and (iv) poses a concrete threat to students'
well-being, computational literacy and career prospects in science. These
patterns underline the crucial need to go beyond performance for estimating
math anxiety. Recent advances with network psychometrics and cognitive network
science provide ideal frameworks for detecting, interpreting and intervening
upon such clinical condition. Merging education research, psychology and data
science, the approaches reviewed here reconstruct psychological constructs as
complex systems, represented either as multivariate correlation models (e.g.
graph exploratory analysis) or as cognitive networks of semantic/emotional
associations (e.g. free association networks or forma mentis networks). Not
only can these interconnected networks detect otherwise hidden levels of math
anxiety but - more crucially - they can unveil the specific layout of
interacting factors, e.g. key sources and targets, behind math anxiety in a
given cohort. As discussed here, these network approaches open concrete ways
for unveiling students' perceptions, emotions and mental well-being, and can
enable future powerful data-informed interventions untangling math anxiety.

Mathematical questioning is crucial for assessing students problem-solving
skills. Since manually creating such questions requires substantial effort,
automatic methods have been explored. Existing state-of-the-art models rely on
fine-tuning strategies and struggle to generate questions that heavily involve
multiple steps of logical and arithmetic reasoning. Meanwhile, large language
models(LLMs) such as ChatGPT have excelled in many NLP tasks involving logical
and arithmetic reasoning. Nonetheless, their applications in generating
educational questions are underutilized, especially in the field of
mathematics. To bridge this gap, we take the first step to conduct an in-depth
analysis of ChatGPT in generating pre-university math questions. Our analysis
is categorized into two main settings: context-aware and context-unaware. In
the context-aware setting, we evaluate ChatGPT on existing math
question-answering benchmarks covering elementary, secondary, and ternary
classes. In the context-unaware setting, we evaluate ChatGPT in generating math
questions for each lesson from pre-university math curriculums that we crawl.
Our crawling results in TopicMath, a comprehensive and novel collection of
pre-university math curriculums collected from 121 math topics and 428 lessons
from elementary, secondary, and tertiary classes. Through this analysis, we aim
to provide insight into the potential of ChatGPT as a math questioner.

Applying the main results of math.AG/0408295, we identify the motives
occurring as cones in the co-localization and localization filtrations of the
boundary motive of a Shimura variety.

It is shown that one system of coupled KdV equations, found in J. Nonlin.
Math. Phys., 1999, Vol.6, Nr.3, 255--262 [arXiv:solv-int/9901005] to possess
the Painlev\'e property, is integrable but not new.

An elliptic analogue of the $q$ deformed Knizhnik-Zamolodchikov equations is
introduced. A solution is given in the form of a Jackson-type integral of Bethe
vectors of the XYZ-type spin chains.

In this note the noncommutative geometry is interpreted as a functor, whose
range is a family of the operator algebras. Some examples are given and a
program is sketched.

We formulate some precise conjectures concerning the existence and structure
of supersymmetric T3 fibrations of Calabi-Yau threefolds, and describe how
these conjectural fibrations would give rise to the Strominger-Yau-Zaslow
version of mirror symmetry.

We present a new proof of generalized Flett's mean value theorem due to
Pawlikowska (from Demonstratio Math. 1999) using only the original Flett's mean
value theorem. Also, a Trahan-type condition is established in general case.

The following is an outline of possible strategies in using semantic web
techniques and math with regard to environmental issues. The article uses
concrete examples and applications and provides partially a rather basic
treatment of semantic web techniques and math in order to adress a broader
audience.

We prove that any entire convex $C^2$-solution to a Hessian type equation
with a subquadratic growth at infinity is an affine function.

These notes are based on a lecture series given at the Park City Math
Institute in the summer of 2013. The notes are intended as a leisurely
introduction to the K\"ahler-Ricci flow on compact K\"ahler manifolds, aimed at
graduate students with some background in differential geometry.

Asaf Karagila pointed out that Remark 3.4 [1], directly contradicts Theorem
3.3 (c) [2] which was incorrectly stated. This note contains a proof of this
remark.
  [1] Miller, Arnold W.; A Dedekind Finite Borel Set, Arch. Math. Logic 50
(2011), no. 1-2, 1--17.
  [2] Kanamori, A.; Pincus, D.; Does GCH imply AC locally?, Paul Erdos and his
mathematics, II (Budapest, 1999), 413-426, Bolyai Soc. Math. Stud., 11, Janos
Bolyai Math. Soc., Budapest, 2002.

In this paper, we consider the nonlinear inhomogeneous compressible elastic
waves in three spatial dimensions when the density is a small disturbance
around a constant state. In homogeneous case, the almost global existence was
established by Klainerman-Sideris [1996_CPAM], and global existence was built
by Agemi [2000_Invent. Math.] and Sideris [1996_Invent. Math., 2000_Ann. Math.]
independently. Here we establish the corresponding almost global and global
existence theory in the inhomogeneous case.

We give a counterexample to Theorem 9 in [T.K. Subrahmonian Moothathu,
Syndetically proximal pairs, J. Math. Anal. Appl. 379 (2011) 656--663]. We also
provide sufficient conditions for the conclusion of Theorem 9 to hold.

We correct the proof of Theorem 4.1 from [C. R. Math. Acad. Sci. Soc. R. Can.
\textbf{44} (2022), no. 4, 88--112].

In this note, we report some progress we made recently on the automorphisms
groups of K3 surfaces. A short and straightforward proof of the impossibility
of Z/(60) acting purely non-symplectically on a K3 surface, is also given, by
using Lefschetz fixed point formula for vector bundles.

B\"acklund transformation for the Bullough-Dodd-Jiber-Shabat equation
$u_{xx}-u_{tt}=e^u-e^{-2u}$ is found. The construction of integrable boundary
condition for this equation together with the algebro-geometric solutions
satisfying it are suggested.

It is proven that the eigenvalue process of Dyson's random matrix process of
size two becomes non-Markov if the common coefficient $1/\sqrt{2}$ in the
non-diagonal entries is replaced by a different positive number.

A gap in the proof of Theorem 3.5 in the paper ``A new iteration process for
approximation of common fixed points for finite families of total asymtotically
nonexpansive mappings". Int. J. Math. Math. Sci. vol. 2009,
doi:10.1155/2009/615107" is observed. The argument used on page 11, starting
from line 8 from bottom to the end of the proof of the theorem is not correct.
In this corrigendum, it is our aim to close this gap.

We present an overview of a result by Ju. A. Dubinskii [Mat. Sb. 67 (109)
(1965); translated in Amer. Math. Soc. Transl. (2) 67 (1968)], concerning the
compact embedding of a seminormed set in $L^p(0,T; \mathcal{A}_0)$, where
$\mathcal{A}_0$ is a Banach space and $p \in [1,\infty]$; we establish a
variant of Dubinskii's theorem, where a seminormed nonnegative cone is used
instead of a seminormed set; and we explore the connections of these results
with a nonlinear compact embedding theorem due to E. Maitre [Int. J. Math.
Math. Sci. 27 (2003)].

Similarity search in math is to find mathematical expressions that are
similar to a user's query. We conceptualized the similarity factors between
mathematical expressions, and proposed an approach to math similarity search
(MSS) by defining metrics based on those similarity factors [11]. Our
preliminary implementation indicated the advantage of MSS compared to
non-similarity based search. In order to more effectively and efficiently
search similar math expressions, MSS is further optimized. This paper focuses
on performance evaluation and optimization of MSS. Our results show that the
proposed optimization process significantly improved the performance of MSS
with respect to both relevance ranking and recall.

In this paper, with a view to improve the g-monotonicity condition, we
introduce the notion of g-comparability of a mapping defined on an ordered set
and utilize the same to prove some existence and uniqueness results on
coincidence points for linear contraction without g-monotonicity in ordered
metric spaces. Our results extend some classical and well known results due to
Ran and Reurings (Proc. Amer. Math. Soc. 132(2004), no.5, 1435-1443), Nieto and
Rodriguez-Lopez (Acta Math. Sin. 23(2007), no.12, 2205-2212), Turinici
(Libertas Math. 31(2011), 49-55), Turinici (Math. Student 81(2012), no.1-4,
219-229) and Doric et al. (RACSAM 108(2014), no.2, 503-510) and similar others.

Specific to Math Information Retrieval is combining text with mathematical
formulae both in documents and in queries. Rigorous evaluation of query
expansion and merging strategies combining math and standard textual keyword
terms in a query are given. It is shown that techniques similar to those known
from textual query processing may be applied in math information retrieval as
well, and lead to a cutting edge performance. Striping and merging partial
results from subqueries is one technique that improves results measured by
information retrieval evaluation metrics like Bpref.

We compute the anticanonical module of the Segre product of standard graded
$K$-algebras and determine its depth.

We propose Text2Math, a model for semantically parsing text into math
expressions. The model can be used to solve different math related problems
including arithmetic word problems and equation parsing problems. Unlike
previous approaches, we tackle the problem from an end-to-end structured
prediction perspective where our algorithm aims to predict the complete math
expression at once as a tree structure, where minimal manual efforts are
involved in the process. Empirical results on benchmark datasets demonstrate
the efficacy of our approach.

Our interdisciplinary team Mathematics for Applications in Cultural Heritage
(MACH) aims to use mathematical research for the benefit of the arts and
humanities. Our ultimate goal is to create user-friendly software toolkits for
artists, art conservators and archaeologists. In order for their underlying
mathematical engines and functionality to be optimised for the needs of the end
users, we pursue an iterative approach based on a continuous communication
between the mathematicians and the cultural-heritage members of our team. Our
paper illustrates how maths can speak art, but only if first art speaks maths.

For the incompressible Euler equations the pressure formally scales as a
quadratic function of velocity. We provide several optimal regularity estimates
on the pressure by using regularity of velocity in various Sobolev, Besov and
Hardy spaces. Our proof exploits the incompressibility condition in an
essential way and is deeply connected with the classic Div-Curl lemma which we
also generalise as a fractional Leibniz rule in Hardy spaces. To showcase the
sharpness of results, we construct a class of counterexamples at several
end-points.

By using some deep tools from microlocal analysis, the authors of the papers
(Ann. of Math., 165 (2007), 567--591, J. Amer. Math. Soc., 23 (2010), 655--691;
Invent. Math., 178 (2009), 119--171; Duke Math. J., 158(2011), 83--120) have
successfully established various Carleman estimates for elliptic operators that
possess limiting Carleman weight. In this study, we revisit these problems and
present a unified and fundamental approach for deriving these estimates. The
main tool we employ is an elementary pointwise estimate for second-order
elliptic operators.

Given an invertible sheaf, does it come from a Cartier divisor? This might
fail in presence of embedded components. I give some examples and characterize
those invertible sheaves that allow a Cartier divisor.

An asymptotic expansion of a ratio of products of gamma functions is derived.
It generalizes a formula which was stated by Dingle, first proved by Paris, and
recently reconsidered by Olver.

We give canonical resolutions of singularities of several cone varieties
arising from invariant theory. We establish a connection between our
resolutions and resolutions of singularities of closure of conjugacy classes in
classical Lie algebras.

We verify Green's conjecture for a generic $k$-gonal curve of genus $g$, for
$g\geq k(k-1)/2$.

We prove various characterizations of the period torsor of abelian varieties.
This is the submitted version.

We determine the derivation algebras and the isomorphism classes of a family
of the simple Lie algebras introduced recently by Xu [Manuscripta Math 100
(1999), 489-518]. The structure space of these algebras is given explicitly.

Frame-spun knots are constructed by spinning a knot of lower dimension about
a framed submanifold of S^n. We show that all frame-spun knots are slice
(null-cobordant).

In this paper we classify reflection subgroups of Euclidean Coxeter groups.

In this paper, by generalizing the concept of balanced metrics, we shall show
that Donaldson's asymptotic approximation of balanced metrics for constant
scalar curvature cases can be generalized to extremal Kaehler cases.

We use the recently-developed multiparameter theory of additive Levy
processes to establish novel connections between an arbitrary Levy process $X$
in $\mathbf{R}^d$, and a new class of energy forms and their corresponding
capacities. We then apply these connections to solve two long-standing problems
in the folklore of the theory of Levy processes. First, we compute the
Hausdorff dimension of the image $X(G)$ of a nonrandom linear Borel set
$G\subset \mathbf{R}_+$, where $X$ is an arbitrary Levy process in
$\mathbf{R}^d$. Our work completes the various earlier efforts of Taylor [Proc.
Cambridge Phil. Soc. 49 (1953) 31-39], McKean [Duke Math. J. 22 (1955)
229-234], Blumenthal and Getoor [Illinois J. Math. 4 (1960) 370-375, J. Math.
Mech. 10 (1961) 493-516], Millar [Z. Wahrsch. verw. Gebiete 17 (1971) 53-73],
Pruitt [J. Math. Mech. 19 (1969) 371-378], Pruitt and Taylor [Z. Wahrsch. Verw.
Gebiete 12 (1969) 267-289], Hawkes [Z. Wahrsch. verw. Gebiete 19 (1971) 90-102,
J. London Math. Soc. (2) 17 (1978) 567-576, Probab. Theory Related Fields 112
(1998) 1-11], Hendricks [Ann. Math. Stat. 43 (1972) 690-694, Ann. Probab. 1
(1973) 849-853], Kahane [Publ. Math. Orsay (83-02) (1983) 74-105, Recent
Progress in Fourier Analysis (1985b) 65-121], Becker-Kern, Meerschaert and
Scheffler [Monatsh. Math. 14 (2003) 91-101] and Khoshnevisan, Xiao and Zhong
[Ann. Probab. 31 (2003a) 1097-1141], where $\dim X(G)$ is computed under
various conditions on $G$, $X$ or both.

These myh lectures at the Park City conference in 1998.

Renyi's result on the density of integers whose prime factorizations have
excess multiplicity has an analogue for polynomials over a finite field.

Every 1-connected topological 4-manifold M admits a $S^{1}$-covering by
$#_{r-1}S^{2}\times S^{3}$, where $r=$rank$H^{2}(M;\QTR{Bbb}{Z})$.

We study homology and cohomology of triassociative algebras with non-trivial
coefficients.

In the paper we completely describe the set of all solutions of a recursive
equation, arising from the Bethe lattice models over $p$-adic numbers.

We classify the domains of holomorphy of all Harish-Chandra modules of
irreducible unitary representations of simple non-compact Lie groups.

We prove some new formulae for the derivatives of the generalized Gegenbauer
polynomials associated to the Lie algebra $A_2$.

A simple algorithm for the inverse scattering approach to the Camassa-Holm
equation is presented.

We show that P(phi)_2 quantum field theories satisfy axioms of the type
advocated by Graeme Segal.

We exhibit a family of *-isomorphisms mapping the CAR algebra onto its even
subalgebra.

We construct level one representations of the quantum affine algebra
$U_q(G_2^{(1)})$ by vertex operators from bosonic fields.

We define and study the combinatorial properties of compositional
  Bernoulli numbers and polynomials within the framework of rational
combinatorics.

This note contains a correction of the proofs of the main results of the
paper [A. Yekutieli, Deformation quantization in algebraic geometry, Adv. Math.
198 (2005), 383-432]. The results are correct as originally stated.

We prove the following theorem for a finitely generated field $K$: Let $M$ be
a Galois extension of $K$ which is not separably closed. Then $M$ is not PAC
over $K$.

This note should clarify how the behavior of certain invariant objects
reflects the geometric convexity of balanced domains.

We give a stack-theoretic proof for some results on families of hyperelliptic
curves.

We define and study Riesz transforms and conjugate Poisson integrals
associated with multi-dimensional Jacobi expansions.

We prove a strong simultaneous Diophantine approximation theorem for values
of additive and multiplicative functions provided that the functions have
certain regularity on the primes.

In ``Ramified G-bundles as parabolic bundles'' (J. Ramanujan Math. Soc.
(2003) Vol. 18) with Balaji and Nagaraj we introduced the ramified principal
bundles. The aim here is to define the Higgs bundles in the ramified context.

We completely characterize the Narcowich-Wigner spectrum of Wigner functions
associated with pure states.

It is shown that the Hilbert metric on the interior of a convex polytope is
bilipschitz to a normed vector space of the same dimension.

The spatiality of derivations of quasi *-algebras is investigated by means of
representation theory. Moreover, in view of physical applications, the
spatiality of the limit of a family of spatial derivations is considered.

We show that the Jacobian conjecture of the two dimensional case is true.

We show that homologically trivial algebraic cycles on a 3-dimensional
abelian variety are smash-nilpotent.

The following result is proved: Consider a 4-dimensional Kaehler manifold M
with nonvanishing Bochner tensor B. Then any holomorphic transformation of M,
which preserves B is a homothety.

We construct all finite irreducible modules over Lie conformal superalgebras
of type K

In this paper we study the possible torsions of elliptic curves over $\mathbb
Q(i)$ and $\mathbb Q(\sqrt {-3})$.

We prove the composition and $L^2$-boundedness theorems for the
Nagel-Ricci-Stein flag kernels related to the natural gradation of homogeneous
groups.

This note corrects Example 3.2 in Two-Variable Wiman-Valiron Theory and PDEs
by the authors which appeared in Ann. Acad. Sci. Fenn Math. (35) (2010),
571-580.

A renormalizable ambiguity-free formulation of the Higgs-Kibble model is
proposed.

This is a copy of the article published in Math Res. Letters 5, (1998)
497-516.

These are mostly expository notes based on the course of lectures on
arithmetic invariants of hyperbolic manifolds given at the workshop associated
with the final "Volume Conference," held at Columbia University, June 2009.
Some new results are included.

We prove that a pair (X, D) with X Fano and D a smooth anti-canonical divisor
is K-unstable for negative angles, and K-semistable for zero angle.

A simple heuristic proof of an integral identity recently derived (Glasser ML
2011 J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 44 225202) is presented.

In this paper, we prove a theorem on the distribution of primes in cubic
progressions on average.

We determine the Cox ring of the space of complete rank two collineations.

Given a Schubert variety X_w, we exhibit a divisor \Delta, defined over the
integers, such that the pair (X_w,\Delta) is log Fano in all characteristics.

This note explains an error in Proposition 5.1 of "Fibers of
tropicalization," Math. Z. 262 (2009), no. 2, 301-311, discovered by W.
Buczynska and F. Sottile, and fills the resulting gap in the proof of the
paper's main theorem.

Inspired by the work of Suzuki in [Proc. Amer. Math. Soc. 136 (2008),
1861--1869] we prove a fixed point theorem for contractive mappings that
generalizes a theorem of Geraghty in [Proc. Amer. Math. Soc., 40 (1973),
604--608] and characterizes metric completeness.

In this paper we study volume growth of gradient steady Ricci solitons. We
show that if the potential function satisfies a uniform condition, then the
soliton has at most Euclidean volume growth.

It is characterized when coarsening functors between categories of graded
modules preserve injectivity of objects, and when they commute with graded
covariant Hom functors.

Let B be a ring and $A=B[X,Y]/(aX^2+bXY+cY^2-1)$ where $a,b,c\in B$. We study
the smoothness of A over B, and the regularity of B when B is a ring of
algebraic integers.

It is well-known that if R is a domain with finite character, each locally
principal nonzero ideal of R is invertible. We address the problem of
understanding when the converse is true and survey some recent results.

We discuss stability conditions for all rank-2 ample vector bundles on
Hirzebruch surfaces with the second Chern class less than 7.

All linear operators $L:\mathcal{C}[z]\to \mathcal{C}[z]$ which decrease the
diameter of the zero set of any $P\in\mathcal{C}[z]$ are found.

We extend the correspondence between Hessian and K\"ahler metrics and
curvatures to Lagrange spaces.

Beyond normal surfaces there are several open questions concerning 2-
dimensional spaces. We present some results and conjectures along this line.

We construct canonical bases in tensor products of several lowest and highest
weight integrable modules, generalizing Lusztig's work.

We describe the fundamental constructions and properties of determinantal
probability measures and point processes, giving streamlined proofs. We
illustrate these with some important examples. We pose several general
questions and conjectures.

The Mumford-Tate conjecture is first proved for CM abelian varieties by H.
Pohlmann [Ann. Math., 1968]. In this note we give another proof of this result
and extend it to CM motives.

In this short note, we describe the finite groups $G$ having $|G|-1$ cyclic
subgroups. This leads to a nice characterization of the symmetric group $S_3$.

Math is the backbone of any field. Still its a night mare for many. Recent
survey proves that many students become dropouts from their higher education
due to math courses. ICT is an enchanted word in the contemporary educational
environment. It made the learning process more entertaining and almost made the
knowledge loss negligible. Adopting the ICT in math courses are still in the
infant level. Hence its a challenge placed in front of the IT and academic
professionals teaching math to make a suitable ICT tools for math courses to
make the learning an amusing experience. In this paper we have highlighted
three main concepts which make the math classes in a fascinating way. The first
method is introducing revolutionary hybrid ebooks which make the reading with
both audio and video facilities. The second method is facilitating the flip
class room so that student may have anywhere-anytime learning experience.
Finally the recent trends in m-learning are using apps for math courses. We
have highlighted the improvement showed by the students based on the survey
conducted with two groups of students with m-learning tools and without
m-learning tools. Even though there are good improvements showed by the
students, we the researchers feel that few more improvements are required in
these methodologies. The suggestions for the same are made in the
recommendations and conclusion section.

We survey the theory of the compactified Jacobian associated to a singular
curve. We focus on describing low genus examples using the Abel map.

In this paper, we prove the infinite dimensionality of some local and global
cohomology groups on abstract Cauchy-Riemann manifolds.

We study metric Diophantine approximation in local fields of positive
characteristic. Specifically, we study the problem of improving Dirichlet's
theorem in Diophantine approximation and prove very general results in this
context.

We give algorithms to construct the N\'eron Desingularization and the easy
case from \cite{KK} of the General N\'eron Desingularization.

We present algebraic and geometric arguments that give a complete
classification of the rational normal scrolls that are hyperplane section of a
given rational normal scrolls.

A modified Gauss's algorithm for solving a system of linear equations in an
integral ring is proposed, as well as an appropriate algorithm for calculating
the elements of the adjoint matrix.

We describe poles and the corresponding residual automorphic representations
of Eisenstein series attached to maximal parabolic subgroups whose unipotent
radicals admit Jordan algebra structure.

The main goal of this paper is to apply the arithmetic method developed in
our previous paper \cite{13} to determine the number of some types of subgroups
of finite abelian groups.

We give an explicit formula for the discriminant $\Delta_f (x)$ of the
quadrinomials of the form $f (x)=x^n+ t (x^2+ax+b)$. The proof uses Bezoutians
of polynomials.

We suggest a new point of view on de Bruijn graphs and their subgraphs based
on using circular words rather than linear ones.

In this note we classify simply connected rationally elliptic compact toric
orbifolds up to algebraic isomorphism.

Many intellectual endeavors require mathematical problem solving, but this
skill remains beyond the capabilities of computers. To measure this ability in
machine learning models, we introduce MATH, a new dataset of 12,500 challenging
competition mathematics problems. Each problem in MATH has a full step-by-step
solution which can be used to teach models to generate answer derivations and
explanations. To facilitate future research and increase accuracy on MATH, we
also contribute a large auxiliary pretraining dataset which helps teach models
the fundamentals of mathematics. Even though we are able to increase accuracy
on MATH, our results show that accuracy remains relatively low, even with
enormous Transformer models. Moreover, we find that simply increasing budgets
and model parameter counts will be impractical for achieving strong
mathematical reasoning if scaling trends continue. While scaling Transformers
is automatically solving most other text-based tasks, scaling is not currently
solving MATH. To have more traction on mathematical problem solving we will
likely need new algorithmic advancements from the broader research community.

Feedback on student answers and even during intermediate steps in their
solutions to open-ended questions is an important element in math education.
Such feedback can help students correct their errors and ultimately lead to
improved learning outcomes. Most existing approaches for automated student
solution analysis and feedback require manually constructing cognitive models
and anticipating student errors for each question. This process requires
significant human effort and does not scale to most questions used in homework
and practices that do not come with this information. In this paper, we analyze
students' step-by-step solution processes to equation solving questions in an
attempt to scale up error diagnostics and feedback mechanisms developed for a
small number of questions to a much larger number of questions. Leveraging a
recent math expression encoding method, we represent each math operation
applied in solution steps as a transition in the math embedding vector space.
We use a dataset that contains student solution steps in the Cognitive Tutor
system to learn implicit and explicit representations of math operations. We
explore whether these representations can i) identify math operations a student
intends to perform in each solution step, regardless of whether they did it
correctly or not, and ii) select the appropriate feedback type for incorrect
steps. Experimental results show that our learned math operation
representations generalize well across different data distributions.

Corrigenda to "$L^p$ estimates and asymptotic behavior for finite energy
solutions of extremals
  to Hardy-Sobolev inequalities", Trans. Amer. Math. Soc. 363 (2011), no. 1,
37--62.

The advancement in generative AI could be boosted with more accessible
mathematics. Beyond human-AI chat, large language models (LLMs) are emerging in
programming, algorithm discovery, and theorem proving, yet their genomics
application is limited. This project introduces Math Agents and mathematical
embedding as fresh entries to the "Moore's Law of Mathematics", using a
GPT-based workflow to convert equations from literature into LaTeX and Python
formats. While many digital equation representations exist, there's a lack of
automated large-scale evaluation tools. LLMs are pivotal as linguistic user
interfaces, providing natural language access for human-AI chat and formal
languages for large-scale AI-assisted computational infrastructure. Given the
infinite formal possibility spaces, Math Agents, which interact with math,
could potentially shift us from "big data" to "big math". Math, unlike the more
flexible natural language, has properties subject to proof, enabling its use
beyond traditional applications like high-validation math-certified icons for
AI alignment aims. This project aims to use Math Agents and mathematical
embeddings to address the ageing issue in information systems biology by
applying multiscalar physics mathematics to disease models and genomic data.
Generative AI with episodic memory could help analyse causal relations in
longitudinal health records, using SIR Precision Health models. Genomic data is
suggested for addressing the unsolved Alzheimer's disease problem.

We introduce MAmmoTH, a series of open-source large language models (LLMs)
specifically tailored for general math problem-solving. The MAmmoTH models are
trained on MathInstruct, our meticulously curated instruction tuning dataset.
MathInstruct is compiled from 13 math datasets with intermediate rationales,
six of which have rationales newly curated by us. It presents a unique hybrid
of chain-of-thought (CoT) and program-of-thought (PoT) rationales, and also
ensures extensive coverage of diverse fields in math. The hybrid of CoT and PoT
not only unleashes the potential of tool use but also allows different thought
processes for different math problems. As a result, the MAmmoTH series
substantially outperform existing open-source models on nine mathematical
reasoning datasets across all scales with an average accuracy gain between 16%
and 32%. Remarkably, our MAmmoTH-7B model reaches 33% on MATH (a
competition-level dataset), which exceeds the best open-source 7B model
(WizardMath) by 23%, and the MAmmoTH-34B model achieves 44% accuracy on MATH,
even surpassing GPT-4's CoT result. Our work underscores the importance of
diverse problem coverage and the use of hybrid rationales in developing
superior math generalist models.

The main result proved in [The eigenvalues of a tridiagonal matrix in
biogeography, Appl. Math. Comput. 218 (2011) 195-201; MR2821464] by B. Igelnik
and D. Simon is virtually the Sylvester determinant.

This is a corrigendum to Acta Math. 196 (2006) as well as to the follow-up
publications JFA 259 (2010) and to JFA 260 (2011).

For many years, I have been collecting math jokes and posting them on my
website. I have more than 400 jokes there. In this paper, which is an extended
version of my talk at the G4G15, I would like to present 66 of them.

A goal of PER is to understand how students use math in physics contexts. To
investigate how students use math, we need to identify transitions between
conceptual sense-making about physical systems and using mathematics to
describe and to make predictions about those systems. We reviewed video of
students solving a variety of physics problems in small groups through the lens
of epistemic frames (e-frames). In this paper, we present a new e-frame, which
we are calling "Just Math", that is similar to the Worksheet e-frame, but is
characterized by brief, low-level, math-focused utterances between students.
Future work will focus on analyzing the transitions into and out of this
e-frame so that we may develop a more coherent understanding of students' use
of math in physics.

Solving math word problems is a challenging task that requires accurate
natural language understanding to bridge natural language texts and math
expressions. Motivated by the intuition about how human generates the equations
given the problem texts, this paper presents a neural approach to automatically
solve math word problems by operating symbols according to their semantic
meanings in texts. This paper views the process of generating equation as a
bridge between the semantic world and the symbolic world, where the proposed
neural math solver is based on an encoder-decoder framework. In the proposed
model, the encoder is designed to understand the semantics of problems, and the
decoder focuses on tracking semantic meanings of the generated symbols and then
deciding which symbol to generate next. The preliminary experiments are
conducted in a dataset Math23K, and our model significantly outperforms both
the state-of-the-art single model and the best non-retrieval-based model over
about 10% accuracy, demonstrating the effectiveness of bridging the symbolic
and semantic worlds from math word problems.

We introduce a large-scale dataset of math word problems and an interpretable
neural math problem solver that learns to map problems to operation programs.
Due to annotation challenges, current datasets in this domain have been either
relatively small in scale or did not offer precise operational annotations over
diverse problem types. We introduce a new representation language to model
precise operation programs corresponding to each math problem that aim to
improve both the performance and the interpretability of the learned models.
Using this representation language, our new dataset, MathQA, significantly
enhances the AQuA dataset with fully-specified operational programs. We
additionally introduce a neural sequence-to-program model enhanced with
automatic problem categorization. Our experiments show improvements over
competitive baselines in our MathQA as well as the AQuA dataset. The results
are still significantly lower than human performance indicating that the
dataset poses new challenges for future research. Our dataset is available at:
https://math-qa.github.io/math-QA/

Discrete mathematics is the foundation of computer science. It focuses on
concepts and reasoning methods that are studied using math notations. It has
long been argued that discrete math is better taught with programming, which
takes concepts and computing methods and turns them into executable programs.
What has been lacking is a principled approach that supports all central
concepts of discrete math -- especially predicate logic -- and that directly
and precisely connects math notations with executable programs. This paper
introduces such an approach. It is based on the use of a powerful language that
extends the Python programming language with proper logic quantification ("for
all" and "exists some"), as well as declarative set comprehension (also known
as set builder) and aggregation (e.g., sum and product). Math and logical
statements can be expressed precisely at a high level and be executed directly
on a computer, encouraging declarative programming together with algorithmic
programming. We describe the approach, detailed examples, experience in using
it, and the lessons learned.

Automatically generating high-quality step-by-step solutions to math word
problems has many applications in education. Recently, combining large language
models (LLMs) with external tools to perform complex reasoning and calculation
has emerged as a promising direction for solving math word problems, but prior
approaches such as Program-Aided Language model (PAL) are biased towards simple
procedural problems and less effective for problems that require declarative
reasoning. We propose an approach that combines an LLM that can incrementally
formalize word problems as a set of variables and equations with an external
symbolic solver that can solve the equations. Our approach achieves comparable
accuracy to the original PAL on the GSM8K benchmark of math word problems and
outperforms PAL by an absolute 20% on ALGEBRA, a new dataset of more
challenging word problems extracted from Algebra textbooks. Our work highlights
the benefits of using declarative and incremental representations when
interfacing with an external tool for solving complex math word problems. Our
data and prompts are publicly available at
https://github.com/joyheyueya/declarative-math-word-problem.

Solving math story problems is a complex task for students and NLP models
alike, requiring them to understand the world as described in the story and
reason over it to compute an answer. Recent years have seen impressive
performance on automatically solving these problems with large pre-trained
language models and innovative techniques to prompt them. However, it remains
unclear if these models possess accurate representations of mathematical
concepts. This leads to lack of interpretability and trustworthiness which
impedes their usefulness in various applications. In this paper, we consolidate
previous work on categorizing and representing math story problems and develop
MathWorld, which is a graph-based semantic formalism specific for the domain of
math story problems. With MathWorld, we can assign world models to math story
problems which represent the situations and actions introduced in the text and
their mathematical relationships. We combine math story problems from several
existing datasets and annotate a corpus of 1,019 problems and 3,204 logical
forms with MathWorld. Using this data, we demonstrate the following use cases
of MathWorld: (1) prompting language models with synthetically generated
question-answer pairs to probe their reasoning and world modeling abilities,
and (2) generating new problems by using the world models as a design space.

Achieving speed and accuracy for math library functions like exp, sin, and
log is difficult. This is because low-level implementation languages like C do
not help math library developers catch mathematical errors, build
implementations incrementally, or separate high-level and low-level decision
making. This ultimately puts development of such functions out of reach for all
but the most experienced experts. To address this, we introduce MegaLibm, a
domain-specific language for implementing, testing, and tuning math library
implementations. MegaLibm is safe, modular, and tunable. Implementations in
MegaLibm can automatically detect mathematical mistakes like sign flips via
semantic wellformedness checks, and components like range reductions can be
implemented in a modular, composable way, simplifying implementations. Once the
high-level algorithm is done, tuning parameters like working precisions and
evaluation schemes can be adjusted through orthogonal tuning parameters to
achieve the desired speed and accuracy. MegaLibm also enables math library
developers to work interactively, compiling, testing, and tuning their
implementations and invoking tools like Sollya and type-directed synthesis to
complete components and synthesize entire implementations. MegaLibm can express
8 state-of-the-art math library implementations with comparable speed and
accuracy to the original C code, and can synthesize 5 variations and 3
from-scratch implementations with minimal guidance.

Math expressions are important parts of scientific and educational documents,
but some of them may be challenging for junior scholars or students to
understand. Nevertheless, constructing textual descriptions for math
expressions is nontrivial. In this paper, we explore the feasibility to
automatically construct descriptions for math expressions. But there are two
challenges that need to be addressed: 1) finding relevant documents since a
math equation understanding usually requires several topics, but these topics
are often explained in different documents. 2) the sparsity of the collected
relevant documents making it difficult to extract reasonable descriptions.
Different documents mainly focus on different topics which makes model hard to
extract salient information and organize them to form a description of math
expressions. To address these issues, we propose a hybrid model (MathDes) which
contains two important modules: Selector and Summarizer. In the Selector, a
Topic Relation Graph (TRG) is proposed to obtain the relevant documents which
contain the comprehensive information of math expressions. TRG is a graph built
according to the citations between expressions. In the Summarizer, a
summarization model under the Integer Linear Programming (ILP) framework is
proposed. This module constructs the final description with the help of a
timeline that is extracted from TRG. The experimental results demonstrate that
our methods are promising for this task and outperform the baselines in all
aspects.

In nature, the behaviors of many complex systems can be described by
parsimonious math equations. Automatically distilling these equations from
limited data is cast as a symbolic regression process which hitherto remains a
grand challenge. Keen efforts in recent years have been placed on tackling this
issue and demonstrated success in symbolic regression. However, there still
exist bottlenecks that current methods struggle to break when the discrete
search space tends toward infinity and especially when the underlying math
formula is intricate. To this end, we propose a novel Reinforcement Symbolic
Regression Machine (RSRM) that masters the capability of uncovering complex
math equations from only scarce data. The RSRM model is composed of three key
modules: (1) a Monte Carlo tree search (MCTS) agent that explores optimal math
expression trees consisting of pre-defined math operators and variables, (2) a
Double Q-learning block that helps reduce the feasible search space of MCTS via
properly understanding the distribution of reward, and (3) a modulated sub-tree
discovery block that heuristically learns and defines new math operators to
improve representation ability of math expression trees. Biding of these
modules yields the state-of-the-art performance of RSRM in symbolic regression
as demonstrated by multiple sets of benchmark examples. The RSRM model shows
clear superiority over several representative baseline models.

The recently released GPT-4 Code Interpreter has demonstrated remarkable
proficiency in solving challenging math problems, primarily attributed to its
ability to seamlessly reason with natural language, generate code, execute
code, and continue reasoning based on the execution output. In this paper, we
present a method to fine-tune open-source language models, enabling them to use
code for modeling and deriving math equations and, consequently, enhancing
their mathematical reasoning abilities. We propose a method of generating novel
and high-quality datasets with math problems and their code-based solutions,
referred to as MathCodeInstruct. Each solution interleaves natural language,
code, and execution results. We also introduce a customized supervised
fine-tuning and inference approach. This approach yields the MathCoder models,
a family of models capable of generating code-based solutions for solving
challenging math problems. Impressively, the MathCoder models achieve
state-of-the-art scores among open-source LLMs on the MATH (45.2%) and GSM8K
(83.9%) datasets, substantially outperforming other open-source alternatives.
Notably, the MathCoder model not only surpasses ChatGPT-3.5 and PaLM-2 on GSM8K
and MATH but also outperforms GPT-4 on the competition-level MATH dataset. The
dataset and models will be released at https://github.com/mathllm/MathCoder.

In math reasoning with large language models (LLMs), fine-tuning data
augmentation by query evolution and diverse reasoning paths is empirically
verified effective, profoundly narrowing the gap between open-sourced LLMs and
cutting-edge proprietary LLMs. In this paper, we conduct an investigation for
such data augmentation in math reasoning and are intended to answer: (1) What
strategies of data augmentation are more effective; (2) What is the scaling
relationship between the amount of augmented data and model performance; and
(3) Can data augmentation incentivize generalization to out-of-domain
mathematical reasoning tasks? To this end, we create a new dataset, AugGSM8K,
by complicating and diversifying the queries from GSM8K and sampling multiple
reasoning paths. We obtained a series of LLMs called MuggleMath by fine-tuning
on subsets of AugGSM8K. MuggleMath substantially achieves new state-of-the-art
on GSM8K (from 54% to 68.4% at the scale of 7B, and from 63.9% to 74.0% at the
scale of 13B). A log-linear relationship is presented between MuggleMath's
performance and the amount of augmented data. We also find that MuggleMath is
weak in out-of-domain math reasoning generalization to MATH. This is attributed
to the differences in query distribution between AugGSM8K and MATH which
suggest that augmentation on a single benchmark could not help with overall
math reasoning performance. Codes and AugGSM8K will be uploaded to
https://github.com/OFA-Sys/gsm8k-ScRel.

This study evaluates the impact of Rori, an AI powered conversational math
tutor accessible via WhatsApp, on the math performance of approximately 1,000
students in grades 3-9 across 11 schools in Ghana. Each school was assigned to
a treatment group or control group; the students in the control group continued
their regular math instruction, while students in the treatment group engaged
with Rori, for two 30-minute sessions per week over 8 months in addition to
regular math instruction. We find that the math growth scores were
substantially higher for the treatment group with an effect size of 0.37, and
that the results were statistically significant (p < 0.001). The fact that Rori
works with basic mobile devices on low-bandwidth data networks gives the
intervention strong potential to support personalized learning on other
low-and-middle-income countries (LMICs), where laptop ownership and high-speed
internet - prerequisite for many video-centered learning platforms - remain
extremely limited. While the results should be interpreted judiciously, as they
only report on year 1 of the intervention, and future research is necessary to
better understand which conditions are necessary for successful implementation,
they do suggest that chat-based tutoring solutions leveraging artificial
intelligence could offer a costeffective approach to enhancing learning
outcomes for millions of students globally.

Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabilities in
problem-solving. However, their proficiency in solving mathematical problems
remains inadequate. We propose MathScale, a simple and scalable method to
create high-quality mathematical reasoning data using frontier LLMs (e.g., {\tt
GPT-3.5}). Inspired by the cognitive mechanism in human mathematical learning,
it first extracts topics and knowledge points from seed math questions and then
build a concept graph, which is subsequently used to generate new math
questions. MathScale exhibits effective scalability along the size axis of the
math dataset that we generate. As a result, we create a mathematical reasoning
dataset (MathScaleQA) containing two million math question-answer pairs. To
evaluate mathematical reasoning abilities of LLMs comprehensively, we construct
{\sc MwpBench}, a benchmark of Math Word Problems, which is a collection of ten
datasets (including GSM8K and MATH) covering K-12, college, and competition
level math problems. We apply MathScaleQA to fine-tune open-source LLMs (e.g.,
LLaMA-2 and Mistral), resulting in significantly improved capabilities in
mathematical reasoning. Evaluated on {\sc MwpBench}, MathScale-7B achieves
state-of-the-art performance across all datasets, surpassing its best peers of
equivalent size by 42.9\% in micro average accuracy and 43.7\% in macro average
accuracy, respectively.

We prove a theorem of M. Gromov (Oka's principle for holomorphic sections of
elliptic bundles, J. Amer. Math. Soc. 2, 851-897, 1989) to the effect that
sections of certain holomorphic submersions h from a complex manifold Z onto a
Stein manifold X satisfy the Oka principle, meaning that the inclusion of the
space of holomorphic sections into the space of continuous sections is a weak
homotopy equivalence. The Oka principle holds if the submersion admits a
fiber-dominating spray over a small neighborhood of any point in X. This
extends a classical result of Grauert (Holomorphe Funktionen mit Werten in
komplexen Lieschen Gruppen, Math. Ann. 133, 450-472, 1957). Gromov's result has
been used in the proof of the embedding theorems for Stein manifolds and Stein
spaces into Euclidean spaces of minimal dimension (Y. Eliashberg and M. Gromov,
Ann. Math. 136, 123-135, 1992; J. Schurmann, Math. Ann. 307, 381-399, 1997).
For further extensions see the preprints math.CV/0101034, math.CV/0107039, and
math.CV/0110201.

The main motivation for this work was to find an explicit formula for a
"Szego-regularized" determinant of a zeroth order pseudodifferential operator
(PsDO) on a Zoll manifold. The idea of the Szego-regularization was suggested
by V. Guillemin and K. Okikiolu. They have computed the second term in a Szego
type expansion on a Zoll manifold of an arbitrary dimension. In the present
work we compute the third asymptotic term in any dimension. In the case of
dimension 2, our formula gives the above mentioned expression for the
Szego-redularized determinant of a zeroth order PsDO. The proof uses a new
combinatorial identity, which generalizes a formula due to G.A. Hunt and F.J.
Dyson. This identity is related to the distribution of the maximum of a random
walk with i.i.d. steps on the real line. The full version of this paper is also
available, math.FA/0212275.

In [Adv. Math. 196 (2005) 310-345] the author introduced a new generalized
function space $\mathcal U(R^k)$ which can be naturally interpreted as the
Fourier transform of the space of Sato's hyperfunctions on $R^k$. It was shown
that all Gelfand--Shilov spaces $S^{\prime 0}_\alpha(R^k)$ ($\alpha>1$) of
analytic functionals are canonically embedded in $\mathcal U(R^k)$. While the
usual definition of support of a generalized function is inapplicable to
elements of $S^{\prime 0}_\alpha(R^k)$ and $\mathcal U(R^k)$, their
localization properties can be consistently described using the concept of {\it
carrier cone} introduced by Soloviev [Lett. Math. Phys. 33 (1995) 49-59; Comm.
Math. Phys. 184 (1997) 579-596]. In this paper, the relation between carrier
cones of elements of $S^{\prime 0}_\alpha(R^k)$ and $\mathcal U(R^k)$ is
studied. It is proved that an analytic functional $u\in S^{\prime
0}_\alpha(R^k)$ is carried by a cone $K\subset R^k$ if and only if its
canonical image in $\mathcal U(R^k)$ is carried by $K$.

A technique of dynamically defined measures is developed and its relation to
the theory of equilibrium states is shown. The technique uses Caratheodory's
method and the outer measure introduced in (I. Werner, Math. Proc. Camb. Phil.
Soc. 140 (2) (2006) 333-347). As an application, equilibrium states for
contractive Markov systems (I. Werner, J. London Math. Soc. 71 (2005), no. 1,
236-258) are obtained.

Search engines for equations now exist, which return results matching the
query's mathematical meaning or structural presentation. Operating over
scientific papers, online encyclopedias, and math discussion forums, their
content includes physics, math, and other sciences. They enable physicists to
avoid jargon and more easily target mathematical content within and across
disciplines. As a natural extension of keyword-based search, they open up a new
world for discovering both exact and approximate mathematical solutions;
physical systems' analogues and alternative models; and physics' patterns.
  This review presents the existing math-aware search engines, discusses
methods for maximizing their search success, and overviews their math-matching
capabilities. Proposed applications to physics are also given, to contribute
towards developers' and physicists' exploration of the newly available search
horizons.

By introducing a new averaged quantity with a fast decay weight to perform
Sideris's argument (Commun Math Phys, 1985) developed for the Euler Equations,
we extend the formation of singularities of classical solution to the 3D Euler
Equations established in Sideris (1985) and Makino et al. (Jpn J Appl Math,
1986) for the initial data with compactly supported disturbances to the
spherically symmetric solution with general initial data in Sobolev space.
Moreover, we also prove the formation of singularities of the spherically
symmetric solutions to the 3D Euler-Poisson Equations, but remove the compact
support assumptions on the initial data in Makino and Perthame (Jpn J Appl
Math, 1990) and Perthame (Jpn J Appl Math, 1990). Our proof also simplifies
that of Lei et al. (Math Res Lett, 2013) for the Euler Equations and is
undifferentiated in dimensions.

Automatically solving math word problems is a critical task in the field of
natural language processing. Recent models have reached their performance
bottleneck and require more high-quality data for training. We propose a novel
data augmentation method that reverses the mathematical logic of math word
problems to produce new high-quality math problems and introduce new knowledge
points that can benefit learning the mathematical reasoning logic. We apply the
augmented data on two SOTA math word problem solving models and compare our
results with a strong data augmentation baseline. Experimental results show the
effectiveness of our approach. We release our code and data at
https://github.com/yiyunya/RODA.

The flipped classroom technique has recently been a focus of attention for
many math instructors and pedagogical researchers. Although research on the
subject has greatly increased in recent years, it is still debated whether the
flipped classroom technique can significantly increase the overall success of
students in undergraduate math courses. While there have been meta-analyses
that consider the efficacy of the technique across university disciplines and
within other STEM fields, there has not yet been a systematic review within
undergraduate math education. By analyzing the existing research and compiling
the quantitative and qualitative data, this paper examines the efficacy of the
flipped classroom technique in undergraduate math courses, ranging from
introductory calculus to transition-to-proof courses, in regards to students'
performance in the classes, perceptions of the technique, and associated
self-efficacy. This paper also introduces the current use of the technique and
covers successful implementation methods. Additionally, it highlights the
flipped classroom technique's potential for improving retention of members of
underrepresented groups in math by increasing their sense of belonging as well
as discusses the efficacy of the method in early proof-based courses in regards
to students' acquisition of sociomathematical norms.

In this paper, we investigate mathematical content representations suitable
for the automated classification of and the similarity search in STEM documents
using standard machine learning algorithms: the Latent Dirichlet Allocation
(LDA) and the Latent Semantic Indexing (LSI). The methods are evaluated on a
subset of arXiv.org papers with the Mathematics Subject Classification (MSC) as
a reference classification and using the standard precision/recall/F1-measure
metrics. The results give insight into how different math representations may
influence the performance of the classification and similarity search tasks in
STEM repositories. Non-surprisingly, machine learning methods are able to grab
distributional semantics from textual tokens. A proper selection of weighted
tokens representing math may improve the quality of the results slightly. A
structured math representation that imitates successful text-processing
techniques with math is shown to yield better results than flat TeX tokens.

A math word problem (MWP) is a coherent narrative which reflects the
underlying logic of math equations. Successful MWP generation can automate the
writing of mathematics questions. Previous methods mainly generate MWP text
based on inflexible pre-defined templates. In this paper, we propose a neural
model for generating MWP text from math equations. Firstly, we incorporate a
matching model conditioned on the domain knowledge to retrieve a MWP instance
which is most consistent with the ground-truth, where the domain is a latent
variable extracted with a domain summarizer. Secondly, by constructing a
Quantity Cell Graph (QCG) from the retrieved MWP instance and reasoning over
it, we improve the model's comprehension of real-world scenarios and derive a
domain-constrained instance sketch to guide the generation. Besides, the QCG
also interacts with the equation encoder to enhance the alignment between math
tokens (e.g., quantities and variables) and MWP text. Experiments and empirical
analysis on educational MWP set show that our model achieves impressive
performance in both automatic evaluation metrics and human evaluation metrics.

The purpose of this paper is to show that the mathematics of quantum
mechanics (QM) is the mathematics of set partitions (which specify
indefiniteness and definiteness) linearized to vector spaces, particularly in
Hilbert spaces. That is, the math of QM is the Hilbert space version of the
math to describe objective indefiniteness that at the set level is the math of
partitions. The key analytical concepts are definiteness versus indefiniteness,
distinctions versus indistinctions, and distinguishability versus
indistinguishability. The key machinery to go from indefinite to more definite
states is the partition join operation at the set level that prefigures at the
quantum level projective measurement as well as the formation of
maximally-definite state descriptions by Dirac's Complete Sets of Commuting
Operators (CSCOs). This development is measured quantitatively by logical
entropy at the set level and by quantum logical entropy at the quantum level.
This follow-the-math approach supports the Literal Interpretation of QM--as
advocated by Abner Shimony among others which sees a reality of objective
indefiniteness that is quite different from the common sense and classical view
of reality as being "definite all the way down."

Parent-child interaction is critical for child development, yet parents may
need guidance in some aspects of their engagement with their children. Current
research on educational math robots focuses on child-robot interactions but
falls short of including the parents and integrating the critical role they
play in children's learning. We explore how educational robots can be designed
to facilitate parent-child conversations, focusing on math talk, a predictor of
later math ability in children. We prototyped capabilities for a social robot
to support math talk via reading and play activities and conducted an
exploratory Wizard-of-Oz in-home study for parent-child interactions
facilitated by a robot. Our findings yield insights into how parents were
inspired by the robot's prompts, their desired interaction styles and methods
for the robot, and how they wanted to include the robot in the activities,
leading to guidelines for the design of parent-child-robot interaction in
educational contexts.

When to solve math problems, most language models take a sampling strategy to
predict next word according conditional probabilities. In the math reasoning
step, it may generate wrong answer. Considering math problems are
deterministic, we propose a mixed policy exploration approach to solve math
problems with reinforcement learning. In peculiar, we propose a two level token
exploration policy: the abstract level explores next token with probability and
the second level is deterministic. Specifically, the abstract level policy will
decide whether the token is operator or operand with probability sampling,
while the second level is deterministic to select next token with the highest
score in a greedy way. We test our method on GSM8K dataset with GPT-2 model,
and demonstrate more than $2\%$ performance gain. Our implementation is
available at https://github.com/vividitytech/math_lm_rl.

We propose novel evaluations for mathematical reasoning capabilities of Large
Language Models (LLMs) based on mathematical misconceptions. Our primary
approach is to simulate LLMs as a novice learner and an expert tutor, aiming to
identify the incorrect answer to math question resulted from a specific
misconception and to recognize the misconception(s) behind an incorrect answer,
respectively. Contrary to traditional LLMs-based mathematical evaluations that
focus on answering math questions correctly, our approach takes inspirations
from principles in educational learning sciences. We explicitly ask LLMs to
mimic a novice learner by answering questions in a specific incorrect manner
based on incomplete knowledge; and to mimic an expert tutor by identifying
misconception(s) corresponding to an incorrect answer to a question. Using
simple grade-school math problems, our experiments reveal that, while LLMs can
easily answer these questions correctly, they struggle to identify 1) the
incorrect answer corresponding to specific incomplete knowledge
(misconceptions); 2) the misconceptions that explain particular incorrect
answers. Our study indicates new opportunities for enhancing LLMs' math
reasoning capabilities, especially on developing robust student simulation and
expert tutoring models in the educational applications such as intelligent
tutoring systems.

Math word problem (MWP) solving aims to understand the descriptive math
problem and calculate the result, for which previous efforts are mostly devoted
to upgrade different technical modules. This paper brings a different
perspective of \textit{reexamination process} during training by introducing a
pseudo-dual task to enhance the MWP solving. We propose a pseudo-dual (PseDual)
learning scheme to model such process, which is model-agnostic thus can be
adapted to any existing MWP solvers. The pseudo-dual task is specifically
defined as filling the numbers in the expression back into the original word
problem with numbers masked. To facilitate the effective joint learning of the
two tasks, we further design a scheduled fusion strategy for the number
infilling task, which smoothly switches the input from the ground-truth math
expressions to the predicted ones. Our pseudo-dual learning scheme has been
tested and proven effective when being equipped in several representative MWP
solvers through empirical studies. \textit{The codes and trained models are
available at:} \url{https://github.com/steven640pixel/PsedualMWP}.
\end{abstract}

We study the global Cauchy problem of the quasilinear Schr\"odinger
equations, for which KENIG et al. (Invent Math, 2004; Adv Math, 2006) obtained
short time local wellposedness with large data by pseudo-differential
techniques and viscosity methods, while MARZUOLA et al. (Adv Math, 2012; Kyoto
J Math, 2014; Arch Ration Mech Anal, 2021) improved the results by dispersive
arguments. In this paper, we introduce the generalized energy method that can
close the bounds by combining momentum and energy estimates and derive the
results by viscosity methods. The whole arguments basically only involve
integration by parts and Sobolev embedding inequalities, just like the
classical local existence theorem for semilinear Schr\"odinger equations. For
quadratic interaction problem with small data, we derive low regularity local
wellposedness in the same function spaces as in the works of Kenig et al. For
cubic interaction problem, we obtain the same low regularity results as in
Marzuola et al. (Kyoto J Math, 2014).

Large language models (LLMs) demonstrate substantial capabilities in solving
math problems. However, they tend to produce hallucinations when given
questions containing unreasonable errors. In this paper, we study the behavior
of LLMs when faced with unreasonable math problems and further explore their
potential to address these problems. We construct the Unreasonable Math Problem
(UMP) benchmark to examine the error detection ability of LLMs. Experiments
show that LLMs are able to detect unreasonable errors, but still fail in
generating non-hallucinatory content. In order to improve their ability of
error detection and correction, we further design a strategic prompt template
called Critical Calculation and Conclusion(CCC). With CCC, LLMs can better
self-evaluate and detect unreasonable errors in math questions, making them
more reliable and safe in practical application scenarios.

For at least 40 years, there has been debate and disagreement as to the role
of mathematics in the computer science curriculum. This paper presents the
results of an analysis of the math requirements of 199 Computer Science BS/BA
degrees from 158 U.S. universities, looking not only at which math courses are
required, but how they are used as prerequisites (and corequisites) for
computer science (CS) courses. Our analysis shows that while there is consensus
that discrete math is critical for a CS degree, and further that calculus is
almost always required for the BS in CS, there is little consensus as to when a
student should have mastered these subjects. Based on our analysis of how math
requirements impact access, retention and on-time degree completion for the BS
and the BA in CS, we provide several recommendations for CS departments to
consider.

Multiple choice questions (MCQs) are a popular method for evaluating
students' knowledge due to their efficiency in administration and grading.
Crafting high-quality math MCQs is a labor-intensive process that requires
educators to formulate precise stems and plausible distractors. Recent advances
in large language models (LLMs) have sparked interest in automating MCQ
creation, but challenges persist in ensuring mathematical accuracy and
addressing student errors. This paper introduces a prototype tool designed to
facilitate collaboration between LLMs and educators for streamlining the math
MCQ generation process. We conduct a pilot study involving math educators to
investigate how the tool can help them simplify the process of crafting
high-quality math MCQs. We found that while LLMs can generate well-formulated
question stems, their ability to generate distractors that capture common
student errors and misconceptions is limited. Nevertheless, a human-AI
collaboration has the potential to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of
MCQ generation.

Let $f\colon X\to S$ be an extremal contraction from a threefold with only
terminal singularities to a surface. We study local analytic structure such
contractions near degenerate fiber $C$ in the case when $C$ is irreducible and
$X$ has on $C$ only one non-Gorenstein point.

A new invariant, the Pontrjagin-Viro form, of algebraic surfaces is
introduced and studied. It is related to various Rokhlin-Guillou-Marin forms
and generalizes Mikhalkin's complex separation. The form is calculated for all
real Enriques surfaces for which it is well defined.

The one-dimensional Ising model with nearest neighbour interactions and the
zero-temperature dynamics recently considered by Lefevre and Dean -J. Phys. A:
Math. Gen. {\bf 34}, L213 (2001)- is investigated. By introducing a
particle-hole description, in which the holes are associated to the domain
walls of the Ising model, an analytical solution is obtained. The result for
the asymptotic energy agrees with that found in the mean field approximation.

We present a general formulation of the matrix product ansatz for exactly
integrable chains on periodic lattices. This new formulation extends the matrix
product ansatz present on our previous articles (F. C. Alcaraz and M. J. Lazo
J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 (2004) L1-L7 and J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 37 (2004)
4149-4182.)

Mechanics is developed over a differentiable manifold as space of possible
positions. Time is considered to fill a one--dimensional Riemannian manifold,
so having the metric as lapse. Then the system is quantized with covariant
instead of partial derivatives in the Schr\"odinger operator. Consequences for
quantum cosmology are shortly discussed.

The Bach equation, i.e., the vacuum field equation following from the
Lagrangian L=C_{ijkl}C^{ijkl}, will be completely solved for the case that the
metric is conformally related to the cartesian product of two 2-spaces; this
covers the spherically and the plane symmetric space-times as special subcases.
Contrary to other approaches, we make a covariant 2+2-decomposition of the
field equation, and so we are able to apply results from 2-dimensional gravity.
Finally, some cosmological solutions will be presented and discussed.

We discuss N=2 SU(2) Yang-Mills gauge theories coupled with N_f (=2,3)
massive hypermultiplets in the weak coupling limit. We determine the exact
massive prepotentials and the monodromy matrices around the weak coupling
limit. We also study that the double scaling limit of these massive theories
and find that the massive N_f -1 theory can be obtained from the massive N_f
theory. New formulae for the massive prepotentials and the monodromy matrices
are proposed. In these formulae, N_f dependences are clarified.

We outline the current state of knowledge regarding geometric inequalities of
systolic type, and prove new results, including systolic freedom in dimension
4. Namely, every compact, orientable, smooth 4-manifold X admits metrics of
arbitrarily small volume such that every orientable, immersed surface of
smaller than unit area is necessarily null-homologous in X.

A polytope is called a Coxeter polytope if its dihedral angles are integer
parts of $\pi$. In this paper we prove that if a non-compact Coxeter polytope
of finite volume in $H^n$ has exactly $n+3$ facets then $n\le 16$. We also find
an example in $H^{16}$ and show that it is unique.

In this paper, we compute the contributions from double cover maps to genus 0
degree 2 Gromov-Witten invariants of general type projective hypersurfaces. Our
results correspond to a generalization of Aspinwall-Morrison formula to general
type hypersurfaces in some special cases.

Consider the functional equation ${\mathcal E}_1(f) = {\mathcal E}_2(f)
({\mathcal E})$ in a certain framework. We say a function $f_0$ is an
approximate solution of $({\mathcal E})$ if ${\mathcal E}_1(f_0)$ and
${\mathcal E}_2(f_0)$ are close in some sense. The stability problem is whether
or not there is an exact solution of $({\mathcal E})$ near $f_0$. In this
paper, the stability of derivations on Hilbert $C^*$-modules is investigated in
the spirit of Hyers--Ulam--Rassias.

In this paper we construct, using Stark elements of Rubin [Ann. Inst. Fourier
(Grenoble) 46 (1996), no. 1, 33-62], Kolyvagin systems for certain modified
Selmer structures (that are adjusted to have core rank one in the sense of
[Mem. Amer. Math. Soc. 168 (2004), no. 799] and prove a Gras-type conjecture,
relating these Kolyvagin systems to appropriate ideal class groups, refining
the results of Rubin [J. Reine Angew. Math. 425 (1992), 141-154].

Mahan [J. Math. Phys. 36, 6758 (1995)] has calculated the transmission
coefficient and angular distribution of particles which enter a thick slab at
normal incidence and which diffuse in the slab with linear anisotropic,
non-absorbing, scattering. Using orthogonality relations derived by McCormick &
Kuscer [J. Math. Phys. 6, 1939 (1965); 7, 2036 (1966)] for the eigenfunctions
of the problem, this calculation is generalised to a boundary condition with
particle input at arbitrary angles. It is also shown how to use the
orthogonality relations to relax in a simple way the restriction to a thick
slab.

Significant obstacles prevent large, university-level, introductory physics
courses from effectively teaching problem-solving skills. We describe our
program for integrating three internet-based "teaching-while-quizzing" tools to
address two of these barriers: students' poor math skills and instructors'
insufficient grading recourses. We outline our system of math remediation,
homework and after-homework quizzes, and mini-practice exams, and demonstrate
how it can be incorporated into courses with modest instructor effort.

Mathematics is an essential element of physics problem solving, but experts
often fail to appreciate exactly how they use it. Math may be the language of
science, but math-in-physics is a distinct dialect of that language. Physicists
tend to blend conceptual physics with mathematical symbolism in a way that
profoundly affects the way equations are used and interpreted. Research with
university physics students in classes from algebra-based introductory physics
indicates that the gap between what students think they are supposed to be
doing and what their instructors expect them to do can cause severe problems.

In this paper we study some iterative methods for simultaneous approximation
of polynomial zeros. We give new semilocal convergence theorems with error
bounds for Ehrlich's and Nourein's iterations. Our theorems generalize and
improve recent results of Zheng and Huang [J. Comput. Math. 18 (2000),
113--122], Petkovi\'c and Herceg [J. Comput. Appl. Math. 136 (2001), 283--307]
and Nedi\'c [Novi Sad J. Math. 31 (2001), 103--111]. We also present a new
sufficient condition for simple zeros of a polynomial.

A two-component link produces a torus as the product of the component knots
in a two-point configuration space of a three-sphere. This space can be
identified with a cotangent bundle and also with an indefinite Grassmannian. We
show that the integration of the absolute value of the canonical symplectic
form is equal to the area of the torus with respect to the pseudo-Riemannian
structure, and that it attains the minimum only at the "best" Hopf links.

By [R. Bautista, P. Gabriel, A.V Roiter., L. Salmeron, Representation-finite
algebras and multiplicative basis. Invent. Math. 81 (1985) 217-285.], a
finite-dimensional algebra having finitely many isoclasses of indecomposable
representations admits a multiplicative basis. In Sections 4.10-4.12 of [P.
Gabriel, A. V. Roiter, Representations of finite-dimensional algebras.
Encyclopaedia of Math. Sci., vol. 73, Algebra 8, Springer-Verlag, 1992] an
analogous hypothesis was formulated for finitely spaced modules over an
aggregate. We prove this conjecture.

We prove the remaining part of the conjecture by Denef and Sperber [Denef, J.
and Sperber, S., \textit{Exponential sums mod $p^n$ and {N}ewton polyhedra},
Bull. Belg. Math. Soc., {\bf{suppl.}} (2001) 55-63] on nondegenerate local
exponential sums modulo $p^m$. We generalize Igusa's conjecture of the
introduction of [Igusa, J., \textit{Lectures on forms of higher degree}, Lect.
math. phys., Springer-Verlag, {\bf{59}} (1978)] from the homogeneous to the
quasi-homogeneous case and prove the nondegenerate case as well as the modulo
$p$ case. We generalize some results by Katz of [Katz, N. M., \textit{Estimates
for "singular" exponential sums}, Internat. Math. Res. Notices (1999) no. 16,
875-899] on finite field exponential sums to the quasi-homogeneous case.

Let G be a discrete group and let X be a G-finite, proper G-CW-complex. We
prove that Kasparov's equivariant K-homology groups KK^G(C_0(X),\C) are
isomorphic to the geometric equivariant K-homology groups of X that are
obtained by making the geometric K-homology theory of Baum and Douglas
equivariant in the natural way. This reconciles the original and current
formulations of the Baum-Connes conjecture for discrete groups.

Using adjoint representation we firstly classify two and three dimensional
Lie super-bialgebras obtain from decomposable Lie superalgebras. In this way we
complete the classification obtained by Eghbali et al., [J. Math. Phys. 51,
073503 (2010); e-print arXiv:0901.4471 [math-ph]]. Then we classify all four
and six dimensional Drinfel'd superdoubles.

We prove dynamic inequalities of majorisation type for functions on time
scales. The results are obtained using the notion of Riemann-Stieltjes delta
integral and give a generalization of [App. Math. Let. 22 (2009), no. 3,
416--421] to time scales.

In this paper, we study the global dynamics of a chemostat model with a
single nutrient and several competing species. Growth rates are not required to
be proportional to food uptakes. The model was studied by Fiedler and Hsu [J.
Math. Biol. (2009) 59:233-253]. These authors prove the nonexistence of
periodic orbits, by means of a multi-dimensional Bendixon-Dulac criterion. Our
approach is based on the construction of Lyapunov functions. The Lyapunov
functions extend those used by Hsu [SIAM J. Appl. Math. (1978) 34:760-763] and
by Wolkowicz and Lu [SIAM J. Appl. Math. (1997) 57:1019-1043] in the case when
growth rates are proportional to food uptakes.

In this note, we point out an error in the proof of Theorem 4.7 of [P. Achar
and A.~Henderson, `Orbit closures in the enhanced nilpotent cone', Adv. Math.
219 (2008), 27-62], a statement about the existence of affine pavings for
fibres of a certain resolution of singularities of an enhanced nilpotent orbit
closure. We also give independent proofs of later results that depend on that
statement, so all other results of that paper remain valid.

In our former study (J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43, (2010) 325210 or
arXiv:1002.0999v1 [math-ph]) we introduced a modified Fourier-Cattaneo law and
derived a non-autonomous telegraph-type heat conduction equation which has
desirable self-similar solution. Now we present a detailed in-depth analysis of
this model and discuss additional analytic solutions for different parameters.
The solutions have a very rich and interesting mathematical structure due to
various special functions.

We argue that there is a fundamental problem regarding the analysis that
serves as the foundation for the papers {\it Information theory explanation of
the fluctuation theorem, maximum entropy production and self-organized
criticality in non-equilibrium stationary states} [R. Dewar, J. Phys. A: Math.
Gen. {\bf 36} (2003), 631-641] and {\it Maximum entropy production and the
fluctuation theorem} [R. Dewar, J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. {\bf 38} (2005),
L371-L381]. In particular, we demonstrate that this analysis is based on an
assumption that is physically unrealistic and that, hence, the results obtained
in those papers cannot be regarded as physically meaningful.

A very natural construction of integrable extensions of soliton systems is
presented. The extension is made on the level of evolution equations by a
modification of the algebra of dynamical fields. The paper is motivated by
recent works of Wen-Xiu Ma et al. (Comp. Math. Appl. 60 (2010) 2601, Appl.
Math. Comp. 217 (2011) 7238), where new class of soliton systems, being
nonlinear integrable couplings, was introduced. The general form of solutions
of the considered class of coupled systems is described. Moreover, the
decoupling procedure is derived, which is also applicable to several other
coupling systems from the literature.

This is a comment on the papers N. D. Elkies, Amer. Math. Monthly 110 (2003),
561-573 and Cvijovic and J. Klinowski, J. Comput. Appl. Math. 142 (2002),
435-439. We provide an explicit expression for the kernel of the integral
operator introduced in the first paper. This explicit expression considerably
simplifies the calculation of S(n) and enables a simple derivation of Cvijovic
and Klinowski's integral representation for $\zeta(2n+1)$.

In this note we answer negatively to our conjecture concerning the deficiency
indices. More precisely, given any non-negative integer $n$, there is locally
finite graph on which the adjacency matrix has deficiency indices $(n,n)$.

We produce an algorithm that, given $\phi\in Out(F_N)$, where $N\ge 2$,
decides wether or not $\phi$ is an iwip ("fully irreducible") automorphism.

In [J. Math. Phys. 53, 042105 (2012)], Bay{\i}n claims to prove the
consistency of the purported piece-wise solutions to the fractional
Schr\"odinger equation for an infinite square well. However, his calculation
uses standard contour integral techniques despite the absence of an analytic
integrand. The correct calculation is presented and supports our earlier work
proving that the purported piece-wise solutions do not solve the fractional
Schr\"odinger equation for an infinite square well [M. Jeng, S.-L.-Y. Xu, E.
Hawkins, and J. M. Schwarz, J. Math. Phys. 51, 062102 (2010)].

Let H[a_0,n] be the class of functions f(z)=a_0+a_nz^n+...which are analytic
in the open unit disk U}. For f(z) in H[a_0,n], S. S. Miller and P. T. Mocanu
(J. Math. Anal. Appl. 65(1978), 289-305) have shown Miller and Mocanu lemma
which is the generalization of Jack lemma by I. S. Jack (J. London Math. Soc.
3(1971), 469-474). Applying Miller and Mocanu lemma, an interesting property
for f(z) in H[a_0,n] and an example are discuss.

Let A_n be the class of functions f(z) which are analytic in the open unit
disk U} with f(0)=0, f'(0)=1, f"(0)=f"'(0)=...=f^{(n)}=0 and f^{(n+1)}\neq0.
Applying the results due to S. S. Miller (J. Math. Anal. Appl. 65(1978),
289-305), some interesting starlikeness problems concerned with subordinations
are discussed. The results in the paper are extensions of results by M.
Obradovi\'c (Hokkaido Math. J. 27(1998), 329-335).

In this paper, the improvement about the generalized Kolmogorov-type three
series theorem, in the case of NQD random variables, is obtained by different
method. Furthermore, the generalized Kolmogorov-type three series theorem is
simplified. From the simplified theorem, related results in Wu (Acta. Math.
Sinica. 45(3), 617-624, 2002) and some main results in Shi (Acta. Math. Appl.
Sin., 34(1), 122-130, 2011) and Li et al. (J. Math. Anal. Appl., 344, 741-747,
2008) are also discussed or improved in the article.

Robin problem for the Laplacian in a bounded planar domain with a smooth
boundary and a large parameter in the boundary condition is considered. We
prove a two-sided three-term asymptotic estimate for the negative eigenvalues.
Furthermore, improving the upper bound we get a two term asymptotics in terms
of the coupling constant and the maximum of the boundary curvature.

We add here some further characterizations to the characterizations of
strongly regular ordered $\Gamma$-semigroups already considered in Hacettepe J.
Math. 42 (2013), 559--567. Our results generalize the characterizations of
strongly regular ordered semigroups given in the Theorem in Math. Japon. 48
(1998), 213--215, in case of ordered $\Gamma$-semigroups. The aim of writing
this paper is not just to add a publication in $\Gamma$-semigroups but, mainly,
as a continuation of the paper "On regular duo $po$-$\Gamma$-semigroups in
Math. Slovaca 61 (2011), 871--884, to publish a paper which serves as an
example to show what a $\Gamma$-semigroup is and give the right information
about this structure.

In this paper, we shall give a lower diameter bound for compact domain
manifolds of shrinking Ricci-harmonic solitons. Our result may be regarded as a
generalization to Ricci-harmonic geometry of the recent works by
Fern\'andez-L\'opez and Garc\'ia-R\'io (Q. J. Math. 61, 319--327, 2010), Futaki
and Sano (Asian J. Math. 17, 17--32, 2013), and Futaki \textit{et al} (Ann.
Global Anal. Geom. 44, 105--114, 2013).

This paper is an extended erratum to J. Math. Phys.53, 042302 (2012) and
arXiv:1104.3443, in which the classic construction and Borel summability of the
phi^4_2 Euclidean quantum field theory was revisited combining a multi-scale
analysis with the constructive method called Loop Vertex Expansion (LVE).
Unfortunately we discovered an important error in the method of J. Math.
Phys.53, 042302 (2012). We explain the mistake, and provide a new, correct
construction of the phi^4_2 theory according to the LVE.

Motivated by a recent work of X. Chen and M. Zhu (Commun. Math. Stat., 1
(2013) 369-385), we establish a Trudinger-Moser inequality on compact
Riemannian surface without boundary. The proof is based on blow-up analysis
together with Carleson-Chang's result (Bull. Sci. Math. 110 (1986) 113-127).
This inequality is different from the classical one, which is due to L. Fontana
(Comment. Math. Helv., 68 (1993) 415-454), since the Gaussian curvature is
involved. As an application, we improve Chen-Zhu's result as follows: A
modified Liouville energy of conformal Riemannian metric has a uniform lower
bound, provided that the Euler characteristic is nonzero and the volume of the
conformal surface has a uniform positive lower bound.

The paper describes methodology of math education for students interested in
chemistry. Suppose we have mathematical circle 2 hours per week. What can be
done? We can not provide any systematic study, but we can choose one subject
and show that mathematical beauty and sense corresponds to physical sense and
this provide new understanding. This sample provide right view on mathematics
which can be fruitful for students future carrier. Person gets an impression
how to deal with mathematics.

We summarize math search engines and search interfaces produced by the
Document and Pattern Recognition Lab in recent years, and in particular the min
math search interface and the Tangent search engine. Source code for both
systems are publicly available. "The Masses" refers to our emphasis on creating
systems for mathematical non-experts, who may be looking to define unfamiliar
notation, or browse documents based on the visual appearance of formulae rather
than their mathematical semantics.

Motivated by the new Laplace transforms for the Kummer's confluent
hypergeometric functions $_1F_1$ obtained recently by Kim et al. [Math $\&$
Comput. Modelling, 55 (2012), pp. 1068--1071], the authors aim is to establish
so far unknown Laplace transforms of rather general case of generalized
hypergeometric functions $_2F_2(x)$ and $_3F_3(x)$ by employing extensions of
classical summation theorems for the series $_2F_1$ and $_3F_2$ obtained
recently by Kim et al. [Int. J. Math. Math. Sci., 309503, 26 pages, 2010].
Certain known results obtained earlier by Kim et al. follow cases of our main
findings.

In this article, we refine and slightly strengthen the metric space version
of the Borwein-Preiss variational principle due to Li, Shi, J. Math. Anal.
Appl. 246, 308-319 (2000), clarify the assumptions and conclusions of their
Theorem 1 as well as Theorem 2.5.2 in Borwein, Zhu, Techniques of Variational
Analysis, Springer (2005) and streamline the proofs. Our main result, Theorem 3
is formulated in the metric space setting. When reduced to Banach spaces
(Corollary 9), it extends and strengthens the smooth variational principle
established in Borwein, Preiss, Trans. Amer. Math. Soc. 303, 517-527 (1987)
along several directions.

Blanchet introduced certain singular cobordisms to fix the functoriality of
Khovanov homology. In this paper we introduce graded algebras consisting of
such singular cobordisms \`a la Blanchet. As the main result we give algebraic
versions of these algebras using the combinatorics of arc diagrams.

We provide a characterization of Symplectic Grassmannians in terms of their
Varieties of Minimal Rational Tangents.

In this paper, we investigate properties of classes of functions related to
certain elliptic operators. Firstly, we prove that a main result of Dyakonov
(Acta Math. 178(1997), 143--167) on analytic functions can be extended to this
more general setting. Secondly, we study the radial growth on these functions
and the obtained results are generalizations of the corresponding results of
Makarov (Proc. London Math. Soc. 51(1985), 369--384) and Korenblum (Bull. Amer.
Math. Soc. 12(1985), 99--102). Finally, we discuss the Dirichlet type energy
integrals on such classes of functions and their applications.

We focus on a question raised by Daws [Arens regularity of the algebra of
operators on a Banach space, Bull. Lond. Math. Soc. 36 (2004), 493-503]
concerning the Arens regularity of B(X), the algebra of operators on a Banach
space X. Among other things, we show that B(X) is Arens regular if and only if
X is ultrareflexive .

In this paper, we give a negative answer to a problem presented by
Bharanedhar and Ponnusamy (Rocky Mountain J. Math. 44: 753--777, 2014)
concerning univalency of a class of harmonic mappings. More precisely, we show
that for all values of the involved parameter, this class contains a
non-univalent function. Moreover, several results on a new subclass of
close-to-convex harmonic mappings, which is motivated by work of Ponnusamy and
Sairam Kaliraj (Mediterr. J. Math. 12: 647--665, 2015), are obtained.

Consider the motion of a viscous incompressible fluid in a 3D exterior domain
when a rigid body moves with prescribed time-dependent translational and
angular velocities. For the linearized non-autonomous system, $L^q$-$L^r$
smoothing action near the initial time as well as generation of the evolution
operator was shown by Hansel and Rhandi (J. Reine Angew. Math. 2014) under
reasonable conditions. In this paper we develop the $L^q$-$L^r$ decay estimates
of the evolution operator and then apply them to the Navier-Stokes initial
value problem.

We shall given a new effectively computable upper bound of odd perfect
numbers whose Euler factors are powers of fixed exponent, improving our old
result in T. Yamada, Colloq. Math. 103 (2005), 303--307.

We analyse infinitesimal deformations of pairs $(X,\mathcal{F})$ with
$\mathcal{F}$ a coherent sheaf on a smooth projective manifold $X$ over an
algebraic closed field of characteristic $0$. We describe a differential graded
Lie algebra controlling the deformation problem, and we prove an analog of a
Mukai-Artamkin Theorem about the trace map.

We adapt the method of Simon [JDG '93] to prove a $C^{1,\alpha}$-regularity
theorem for minimal varifolds which resemble a cone $\bf{C}_0^2$ over an
equiangular geodesic net. For varifold classes admitting a "no-hole" condition
on the singular set, we additionally establish $C^{1,\alpha}$-regularity near
the cone $\bf{C}_0^2 \times \mathbb R^m$. Combined with work of Allard [Ann. of
Math. '72], Simon [JDG '93], Taylor [Ann. of Math. '76], and Naber-Valtorta
[Ann. of Math. '17], our result implies a $C^{1,\alpha}$-structure for the top
three strata of minimizing clusters and size-minimizing currents, and a
Lipschitz structure on the $(n-3)$-stratum.

In this article, we give the non-integrated defect relations for the Gauss
map of a complete minimal surface with finite total curvature in $\mathbb R^m.$
This is a continuation of previous work of Ha-Trao [J. Math. Anal. Appl.,
\textbf{430} (2015), 76-84.], which we extend here to targets of higher
dimension.

A group theoretical formulation of Schramm--Loewner-evolution-type growth
processes corresponding to Wess--Zumino--Witten theories is developed that
makes it possible to construct stochastic differential equations associated
with more general null vectors than the ones considered in the most fundamental
example in [Alekseev et al., Lett. Math. Phys. 97, 243-261 (2011)]. Also given
are examples of Schramm--Loewner-evolution-type growth processes associated
with null vectors of conformal weight $4$ in the basic representations of
$\widehat{\mathfrak{sl}}_{2}$ and $\widehat{\mathfrak{sl}}_{3}$.

In this note we explore the possible marginal deformations of general (0,2)
non-linear sigma-models, which arise as descriptions of the weakly-coupled
(large radius) limits of four-dimensional $\mathcal{N}= 1$ compactifications of
the heterotic string, to lowest order in $\alpha'$ and first order in conformal
perturbation theory. The results shed light from the world-sheet perspective on
the classical moduli space of such compactifications. This is a contribution to
the proceedings of String-Math 2012.

Let p be an odd prime and k an algebraically closed field of characteristic
zero. We classify nonsemisimple Hopf algebras over k of dimension 8p with the
Chevalley property, and give partial results on nonsemisimple Hopf algebras of
dimension 24.

We study the twisted reality condition of Math. Phys. Anal. Geom. 19
(2016),no. 3, Art. 16, for spectral triples, in particular with respect to the
product and the commutant. Motivated by this we present the procedure, which
allows one to "untwist" the twisted spectral triples studied in Lett. Math.
Phys. 106 (2016), 1499-1530. We also relate this construction to conformally
rescaled real twisted spectral triples, and discuss the untwisting of the
`minimal twist' procedure of an even spectral triple.

Let $\mathbb{F}_q$ be a finite field of characteristic not equal to $2$ or
$3$. We compute the weight enumerators of some projective and affine
Reed-Muller codes of order $3$ over $\mathbb{F}_q$. These weight enumerators
answer enumerative questions about plane cubic curves. We apply the MacWilliams
theorem to give formulas for coefficients of the weight enumerator of the duals
of these codes. We see how traces of Hecke operators acting on spaces of cusp
forms for $\operatorname{SL}_2(\mathbb{Z})$ play a role in these formulas.

The paper of Unal [J. Math. Phys. 59, 062104 (2018)], though worthy of
attention, contains a conclusion that is in error and may mislead the efforts
to extend his results. The aim of the present note is twofold: we provide a
correction to such a conclusion and then we emphasize some missing points that
are necessary to clarify the content of the paper.

This is a review of Hossenfelder's book, 'Lost in Math: How Beauty Leads
Physics Astray'. The book gives a breezy exposition of the present situation in
fundamental physics, and raises important questions: both about the content of
the physics, and the way physics research is organized. I first state my main
disagreements. Then, I mostly praise the book: I concentrate on Hossenfelder's
discussion of supersymmetry, naturalness and the multiverse.

We revisit work of S. Boucksom, C. Favre, and M. Jonsson (J. Algebraic Geom.
\textbf{18} (2009), no. 2, 279--308); Boucksom and H. Chen (Compos. Math.
\textbf{147} (2011), no. 4, 1205--1229); and S. Boucksom, A. K\"{u}ronya, C.
Maclean, and T. Szemberg (Math. Ann. \textbf{361} (2015), no.~3--4, 811--834).
The key point is to associate a Duistermaat-Heckman measure to a filtered big
linear series on a given projective variety. The expectation of the measure
admits a description via the theory of Newton-Okounkov bodies. Such
considerations have origins in symplectic geometry. They have applications for
$\mathrm{K}$-stability and Diophantine arithmetic geometry of projective
varieties.

For a symmetrizable GCM $C$ and its symmetrizer $D$, Geiss-Leclerc-Schr\"oer
[Invent. Math. 209 (2017)] has introduced a generalized preprojective algebra
$\Pi$ associated to $C$ and $D$, that contains a class of modules, called
locally free modules. We show that any basic support $\tau$-tilting
$\Pi$-module is locally free and gives a classification theorem of torsion-free
classes in $\operatorname{\mathbf{rep}}{\Pi}$ as the generalization of the work
of Mizuno [Math. Z. 277 (2014)].

Recently, the Dodgson's determinant condensation algorithm was revisited in
many papers [College Math. Journal 42(1)(2011): 43--54, College Math. Journal
38(2)(2007): 85--95, Math Horizons 14(2)(2006): 12--15},etc.]. This method is
attractive, but there also exist some shortcomings. In this paper, a symbolic
algorithm and the corresponding problems are discussed to overcome these
shortcomings. Numerical experiments show that this symbolic modified algorithm
has highly sensitivity on initial configuration of the matrix in condensation
process.

We initiate the study of enumerating linear subspaces of alternating matrices
over finite fields with explicit coordinates. We postulate that this study can
be viewed as a linear algebraic analogue of the classical topic of enumerating
labelled graphs. To support this viewpoint, we present q-analogues of Gilbert's
formula for enumerating connected graphs (Can. J. Math., 1956), and Read's
formula for enumerating c-colored graphs (Can. J. Math., 1960). We also develop
an analogue of Riddell's formula relating the exponential generating function
of graphs with that of connected graphs (Riddell's PhD thesis, 1951), building
on Eulerian generating functions developed by Srinivasan (Discrete Math.,
2006).

Learning to use math in science is a non-trivial task. It involves many
different skills (not usually taught in a math class) that help blend physical
knowledge with mathematical symbology. One of these is the idea of
quantification: that physical quantities can be assigned specific numbers. A
second is to develop an intuition for scale. One way to help students develop
these skills is to teach estimation: the ability to consider a physical
situation and put reasonable approximate numbers to it

In problem solving, understanding the problem that one seeks to solve is an
essential initial step. In this paper, we propose computational methods for
facilitating problem understanding through the task of recognizing the unknown
in specifications of long Math problems. We focus on the topic of Probability.
Our experimental results show that learning models yield strong results on the
task, a promising first step towards human interpretable, modular approaches to
understanding long Math problems.

We comment on the validity of Noether's theorem and on the conclusions of [J.
Math. Phys. 61 (2020), no. 11, 113502].

In this paper, we reprove the Riemann-Hilbert correspondence for regular
holonomic D-modules of [M. Kashiwara, Publ. Res. Inst. Math. Sci., 1984] (see
also [Z. Mebkhout, Compositio Math., 1984.]) by using the irregular
Riemann-Hilbert correspondence of [A. D'Agnolo and M. Kashiwara, Publ. Math.
Inst. Hautes Etudes Sci., 2016]. Moreover, we also prove the algebraic one by
the same argument. For this purpose, we study C-constructible enhanced
ind-sheaves of [Y. Ito, Tsukuba journal of Mathematics, 2020, Rend. Sem. Mat.
Univ. Padova., 2021.] in more detail.

This paper shows that in second-order hyperbolic systems of partial
differential equations proposed in authors' earlier paper (J. Math. Phys. 59
(2018)) for modelling the relativistic dynamics of barotropic fluids in the
presence of viscosity and heat conduction, shock waves of arbitrary strength
have smooth, monotone dissipation profiles. The results and arguments extend
classical considerations of Weyl (Comm. Pure Appl. Math. 2 (1949)) and Gilbarg
(Amer. J. Math. 73 (1951)) to the relativistic setting.

This paper presents a new `partitional' approach to understanding or
interpreting standard quantum mechanics (QM). The thesis is that the
mathematics (not the physics) of QM is the Hilbert space version of the math of
partitions on a set and, conversely, the math of partitions is a skeletonized
set level version of the math of QM. Since at the set level, partitions are the
mathematical tool to represent distinctions and indistinctions (or definiteness
and indefiniteness), this approach shows how to interpret the key non-classical
QM notion of superposition in terms of (objective) indefiniteness between
definite alternatives (as opposed to seeing it as the sum of `waves'). Hence
this partitional approach substantiates what might be called the Objective
Indefiniteness Interpretation or what Abner Shimony called the Literal
Interpretation of QM.

Hirotaka Fujimoto proved in [Nagoya Math. J., 1976(64): 117--147] and [Nagoya
Math. J., 1978(71): 13--24] a uniqueness theorem for algebraically
non-degenerate meromorphic maps into $\mathbb{P}^n(\mathbb{C})$ sharing
$(2n+3)$ hyperplanes in general position. The proof of Lemma 3.6 in [Nagoya
Math. J., 1976(64): 117--147] is found to contain a mistake. This mistake can
be corrected easily from a new point of view. This note explains the idea of
the correction and provides a complete proof.

We correct some unfortunate mistakes that appeared in the article D.
Taghizadeh, M. Zahraei, A. Peperko and N. H. Aboutalebi, On the numerical
ranges of matrices in max algebra, Banach j. Math. Anal., 14 (2020), pp.
1773-1792 concerning certain notions of the numerical range in the max algebra
setting.To do this we also include a study of the charactristic max polynomial
and correspondingly the max $k-$spectrum and the $k-$tropical spectrum. We also
pose a nonresolved open questions.

The quantum mechanically admissible definitions of the factor
$\exp\big[(i/\hbar)S(\gamma)\big]$ in the Feynman integral are put in bijection
with the prequantisations of Kostant and Souriau. The different allowed
expressions of this factor -- the inequivalent prequantisations -- are
classified. The theory is illustrated by the Aharonov-Bohm experiment and by
identical particles.

In his previous papers (Math. Res. Letters 7 (2000), 123--13; Progress in
Math. 195 (2001), 473--490; Math. Res. Letters 8 (2001), 429--435; Moscow Math.
J. 2 (2002), issue 2, 403-431; Proc. Amer. Math. Soc. 131 (2003), no. 1,
95--102) the author introduced certain explicit constructions of hyperelliptic
jacobians without nontrivial endomorphisms. In the present paper we discuss
when these jacobians are mutually non-isogenous.
  In addition, a special case ($n=m=3$) of our Theorem 1.2 provides the
following criterion for elliptic curves $C_f: y^2=f(x)$ and $C_h: y^2=h(x)$ to
be non-isogenous. (Here $f(x)$ and $h(x)$ are cubic polynomials with
coefficients in a field $K$ of characteristic zero.) Suppose that $f(x)$ and
$h(x)$ are irreducible over $K$, their Galois groups over $K$ coincide with the
full symmetric group $S_3$, and their splitting fields are linearly disjoint
over $K$. Then the elliptic curves $C_f$ and $C_h$ are non-isogenous over an
algebraic closure of $K$.

Reconstruction theorems tackle the problem of building a global distribution
on $\mathbb{R}^d$ or on a manifold, given a sufficiently coherent family of
local approximations, see [M.Hairer, Invent. Math. 198 (2014), no. 2,269--504],
[M,Hairer and Labb\'e, C, J. Funct. Anal. 273 (2017), no. 8, 2578--2618],
[Caravenna, F and Zambotti, L, EMS Surv. Math. Sci. 7 (2020), no. 2, 207--251],
[Rinaldi, P and Sclavi, F, J. Math. Anal. Appl. 501 (2021), no. 2, 125215, 14
pp] for examples of such results. In this paper, we establish a reconstruction
theorem in the Besov setting, generalising results both of [Caravenna, F and
Zambotti, L, EMS Surv. Math. Sci. 7 (2020), no. 2, 207--251] and [M,Hairer and
Labb\'e, C, J. Funct. Anal. 273 (2017), no. 8, 2578--2618]. While [M,Hairer and
Labb\'e, C, J. Funct. Anal. 273 (2017), no. 8, 2578--2618] is written in the
context of regularity structures and exploits nontrivial results from wavelet
analysis, our calculations follow the more elementary and more general approach
of [Caravenna, F and Zambotti, L, EMS Surv. Math. Sci. 7 (2020), no. 2,
207--251]. In particular, as in [Caravenna, F and Zambotti, L, EMS Surv. Math.
Sci. 7 (2020), no. 2, 207--251], our results are both stated and proved with
tools from the theory of distributions. As an application, we present an
alternative proof of a (Besov) Young multiplication theorem which does not
require the use of paraproducts.

Automatic tagging of knowledge points for practice problems is the basis for
managing question bases and improving the automation and intelligence of
education. Therefore, it is of great practical significance to study the
automatic tagging technology for practice problems. However, there are few
studies on the automatic tagging of knowledge points for math problems. Math
texts have more complex structures and semantics compared with general texts
because they contain unique elements such as symbols and formulas. Therefore,
it is difficult to meet the accuracy requirement of knowledge point prediction
by directly applying the text classification techniques in general domains. In
this paper, K12 math problems taken as the research object, the LABS model
based on label-semantic attention and multi-label smoothing combining textual
features is proposed to improve the automatic tagging of knowledge points for
math problems. The model combines the text classification techniques in general
domains and the unique features of math texts. The results show that the models
using label-semantic attention or multi-label smoothing perform better on
precision, recall, and F1-score metrics than the traditional BiLSTM model,
while the LABS model using both performs best. It can be seen that label
information can guide the neural networks to extract meaningful information
from the problem text, which improves the text classification performance of
the model. Moreover, multi-label smoothing combining textual features can fully
explore the relationship between text and labels, improve the model's
prediction ability for new data and improve the model's classification
accuracy.

Current trend in neurosciences is to use naturalistic stimuli, such as
cinema, class-room biology or video gaming, aiming to understand the brain
functions during ecologically valid conditions. Naturalistic stimuli recruit
complex and overlapping cognitive, emotional and sensory brain processes. Brain
oscillations form underlying mechanisms for such processes, and further, these
processes can be modified by expertise. Human cortical oscillations are often
analyzed with linear methods despite brain as a biological system is highly
nonlinear. This study applies a relatively robust nonlinear method, Higuchi
fractal dimension (HFD), to classify cortical oscillations of math experts and
novices when they solve long and complex math demonstrations in an EEG
laboratory. Brain imaging data, which is collected over a long time span during
naturalistic stimuli, enables the application of data-driven analyses.
Therefore, we also explore the neural signature of math expertise with machine
learning algorithms. There is a need for novel methodologies in analyzing
naturalistic data because formulation of theories of the brain functions in the
real world based on reductionist and simplified study designs is both
challenging and questionable. Data-driven intelligent approaches may be helpful
in developing and testing new theories on complex brain functions. Our results
clarify the different neural signature, analyzed by HFD, of math experts and
novices during complex math and suggest machine learning as a promising
data-driven approach to understand the brain processes in expertise and
mathematical cognition.

For a simple finite connected graph $G$, let $diam(G)$ and $d_{G}(u,v)$
denote the diameter of $G$ and distance between $u$ and $v$ in $G$,
respectively. A radio labeling of a graph $G$ is a mapping $f$ : $V(G)
\rightarrow \{0, 1, 2,...\}$ such that $|f(u)-f(v)| \geq diam(G) + 1 -
d_{G}(u,v)$ holds for every pair of distinct vertices $u,v$ of $G$. The radio
number $rn(G)$ of $G$ is the smallest number $k$ such that $G$ has radio
labeling $f$ with max$\{f(v):v \in V(G)\}$ = $k$. Bantva et al. gave a lower
bound for the radio number of trees in [Lemma 3.1, Discrete Applied
Math.,217(2017),110-122] and, a necessary and sufficient condition to achieve
this lower bound in [Theorem 3.2, Discrete Applied Math.,217(2017),110-122].
Denote the lower bound for the radio number of trees given in [Lemma 3.1,
Discrete Applied Math.,217(2017),110-122] by $lb(T)$. A tree $T$ is called a
lower bound tree for the radio number if $rn(T)$ = $lb(T)$. In this paper, we
construct some large lower bound trees for the radio number using known lower
bound trees.

Large language models are becoming increasingly integrated into our lives.
Hence, it is important to understand the biases present in their outputs in
order to avoid perpetuating harmful stereotypes, which originate in our own
flawed ways of thinking. This challenge requires developing new benchmarks and
methods for quantifying affective and semantic bias, keeping in mind that LLMs
act as psycho-social mirrors that reflect the views and tendencies that are
prevalent in society. One such tendency that has harmful negative effects is
the global phenomenon of anxiety toward math and STEM subjects. Here, we
investigate perceptions of math and STEM fields provided by cutting-edge
language models, namely GPT-3, Chat-GPT, and GPT-4, by applying an approach
from network science and cognitive psychology. Specifically, we use behavioral
forma mentis networks (BFMNs) to understand how these LLMs frame math and STEM
disciplines in relation to other concepts. We use data obtained by probing the
three LLMs in a language generation task that has previously been applied to
humans. Our findings indicate that LLMs have an overall negative perception of
math and STEM fields, with math being perceived most negatively. We observe
significant differences across the three LLMs. We observe that newer versions
(i.e. GPT-4) produce richer, more complex perceptions as well as less negative
perceptions compared to older versions and N=159 high-school students. These
findings suggest that advances in the architecture of LLMs may lead to
increasingly less biased models that could even perhaps someday aid in reducing
harmful stereotypes in society rather than perpetuating them.

Enriching the quality of early childhood education with interactive math
learning at home systems, empowered by recent advances in conversational AI
technologies, is slowly becoming a reality. With this motivation, we implement
a multimodal dialogue system to support play-based learning experiences at
home, guiding kids to master basic math concepts. This work explores Spoken
Language Understanding (SLU) pipeline within a task-oriented dialogue system
developed for Kid Space, with cascading Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) and
Natural Language Understanding (NLU) components evaluated on our home
deployment data with kids going through gamified math learning activities. We
validate the advantages of a multi-task architecture for NLU and experiment
with a diverse set of pretrained language representations for Intent
Recognition and Entity Extraction tasks in the math learning domain. To
recognize kids' speech in realistic home environments, we investigate several
ASR systems, including the commercial Google Cloud and the latest open-source
Whisper solutions with varying model sizes. We evaluate the SLU pipeline by
testing our best-performing NLU models on noisy ASR output to inspect the
challenges of understanding children for math learning in authentic homes.

Despite their success in many natural language tasks, solving math problems
remains a significant challenge for large language models (LLMs). A large gap
exists between LLMs' pass-at-one and pass-at-N performance in solving math
problems, suggesting LLMs might be close to finding correct solutions,
motivating our exploration of fine-tuning methods to unlock LLMs' performance.
Using the challenging MATH dataset, we investigate three fine-tuning
strategies: (1) solution fine-tuning, where we fine-tune to generate a detailed
solution for a given math problem; (2) solution-cluster re-ranking, where the
LLM is fine-tuned as a solution verifier/evaluator to choose among generated
candidate solution clusters; (3) multi-task sequential fine-tuning, which
integrates both solution generation and evaluation tasks together efficiently
to enhance the LLM performance. With these methods, we present a thorough
empirical study on a series of PaLM 2 models and find: (1) The quality and
style of the step-by-step solutions used for fine-tuning can make a significant
impact on the model performance; (2) While solution re-ranking and majority
voting are both effective for improving the model performance when used
separately, they can also be used together for an even greater performance
boost; (3) Multi-task fine-tuning that sequentially separates the solution
generation and evaluation tasks can offer improved performance compared with
the solution fine-tuning baseline. Guided by these insights, we design a
fine-tuning recipe that yields approximately 58.8% accuracy on the MATH dataset
with fine-tuned PaLM 2-L models, an 11.2% accuracy improvement over the
few-shot performance of pre-trained PaLM 2-L model with majority voting.

Large language models (LLMs) have seen considerable advancements in natural
language understanding tasks, yet there remains a gap to bridge before
attaining true artificial general intelligence, especially concerning
shortcomings in mathematical reasoning capabilities. We postulate that the
inherent nature of LLM training, which focuses on predicting probabilities of
next token, presents challenges in effectively modeling mathematical reasoning
that demands exact calculations, both from data-driven and theoretical
standpoints. In this paper, we address this challenge by enriching the data
landscape and introducing a novel math dataset, enhanced with a capability to
utilize a Python code interpreter. This dataset is derived from GSM8K and MATH
and has been further refined through a combination of GPT-4 annotations, human
review, and self-training processes, where the errors in the original GSM8K
training set have been fixed. Additionally, we propose a tentative, easily
replicable protocol for the fine-tuning of math-specific LLMs, which has led to
a significant improvement in the performance of a 7B-parameter LLM on the GSM8K
and MATH datasets. We are committed to advancing the field of mathematical
reasoning in LLMs and, to that end, we have made source code for data
generation / training / inference, and the model checkpoints publicly available
at \url{https://github.com/MARIO-Math-Reasoning/MARIO}. We hope this will
facilitate further research and development within the community.

Recent work has shown the immense potential of synthetically generated
datasets for training large language models (LLMs), especially for acquiring
targeted skills. Current large-scale math instruction tuning datasets such as
MetaMathQA (Yu et al., 2024) and MAmmoTH (Yue et al., 2024) are constructed
using outputs from closed-source LLMs with commercially restrictive licenses. A
key reason limiting the use of open-source LLMs in these data generation
pipelines has been the wide gap between the mathematical skills of the best
closed-source LLMs, such as GPT-4, and the best open-source LLMs. Building on
the recent progress in open-source LLMs, our proposed prompting novelty, and
some brute-force scaling, we construct OpenMathInstruct-1, a math instruction
tuning dataset with 1.8M problem-solution pairs. The dataset is constructed by
synthesizing code-interpreter solutions for GSM8K and MATH, two popular math
reasoning benchmarks, using the recently released and permissively licensed
Mixtral model. Our best model, OpenMath-CodeLlama-70B, trained on a subset of
OpenMathInstruct-1, achieves a score of 84.6% on GSM8K and 50.7% on MATH, which
is competitive with the best gpt-distilled models. We release our code, models,
and the OpenMathInstruct-1 dataset under a commercially permissive license.

Mathematical capabilities were previously believed to emerge in common
language models only at a very large scale or require extensive math-related
pre-training. This paper shows that the LLaMA-2 7B model with common
pre-training already exhibits strong mathematical abilities, as evidenced by
its impressive accuracy of 97.7% and 72.0% on the GSM8K and MATH benchmarks,
respectively, when selecting the best response from 256 random generations. The
primary issue with the current base model is the difficulty in consistently
eliciting its inherent mathematical capabilities. Notably, the accuracy for the
first answer drops to 49.5% and 7.9% on the GSM8K and MATH benchmarks,
respectively. We find that simply scaling up the SFT data can significantly
enhance the reliability of generating correct answers. However, the potential
for extensive scaling is constrained by the scarcity of publicly available math
questions. To overcome this limitation, we employ synthetic data, which proves
to be nearly as effective as real data and shows no clear saturation when
scaled up to approximately one million samples. This straightforward approach
achieves an accuracy of 82.6% on GSM8K and 40.6% on MATH using LLaMA-2 7B
models, surpassing previous models by 14.2% and 20.8%, respectively. We also
provide insights into scaling behaviors across different reasoning complexities
and error types.

We disprove Hitchin's conjecture to the effect that for a generic complex
structure on a simply connected spin complex surface the square root of the
canonical bundle has no more cohomology then is predicted by the Riemann--Roch
theorem. (This paper will appear in Proc. Amer. Math. Soc.)

We prove that the linear system $|-1/3K_X| on a non-singular Fano fivefold
$X$ of index 3 contains an irreducible divisor with only canonical
singularities.

Extensions of a direct product T of two cyclic groups Z_n1 and Z_n2 by an
Abelian (gauge) group G with the trivial action of T on G are considered. All
possible (nonequivalent) factor systems are determined using the Mac Lane
method. Some of resulting groups describe magnetic translation groups. As
examples extensions with G=U(1) and G=Z_n are considered and discussed.

It is shown how root lattices and their reciprocals might serve as the right
pool for the construction of quasicrystalline structure models. All
non-periodic symmetries observed so far are covered in minimal embedding with
maximal symmetry.

For reaction-diffusion processes without exclusion, in which the particles
can exist in the same site of a one-dimensional lattice, we study all the
integrable models which can be obtained by imposing a boundary condition on the
master equation of the asymmetric diffusion process. The annihilation process
is also added. The Bethe ansatz solution and the exact N-particle conditional
probabilities are obtained.

Some groups of real analytic diffeomorphism act n-transitively for each
finite n.

We prove the Arnold conjecture for closed symplectic manifolds with
$\pi_2(M)=0$ and $\cat M=\dim M$. Furthermore, we prove an analog of the
Lusternik-Schnirelmann theorem for functions with ``generalized hyperbolicity''
property.

We consider homothetic maps in a family of spherical relativistic star
models. A generalization of Vaidya's radiating metric provides a fluid
atmosphere of radiation and strings. The similarity structure of the string
fluid is investigated.

This is a first paper of a series in which we give some generalizations of
the Obukhov theorem in the Tucker-Wang approach to Metric- Affine gravity in
which we consider more general actions containing scalar and in general fields
which do not depend on the metric or connection.

Given a globally hyperbolic spacetime $M$, we show the existence of a {\em
smooth spacelike} Cauchy hypersurface $S$ and, thus, a global diffeomorphism
between $M$ and $\R \times S$.

The spinless Salpeter equation presents a rather particular differential
operator. In this paper we rewrite this equation into integral and
integro-differential equations. This kind of equations are well known and can
be more easily handled. We also present some analytical results concerning the
spinless Salpeter equation and the action of the square-root operator.

We give explicit expressions for the three-quark exchange operators, crossing
matrices and Fierz transforms for the SU(2) and SU(3) groups. We identify the
invariant terms in these operators and express them in terms of Casimir
operators.

The perturbation theory around the soliton fields of the sin-Gordon model is
developed in the coset space. It is shown by explicit calculations that all
corrections to the topological soliton contribution are canceled exactly.

A new way of solving the descent equations corresponding to the Wess-Zumino
consistency conditions is presented. The method relies on the introduction of
an operator $\delta$ which allows to decompose the exterior space-time
derivative $d$ as a $BRS$ commutator. The case of the Yang-Mills theories is
treated in detail.

We present evidence for an undiscovered link between N=2 supersymmetric
quantum field theories and the mathematical theory of helices of coherent
sheaves. We give a thorough review for nonspecialists of both the mathematics
and physics involved, and invite the reader to take up the search for this
elusive connection.

Associated to the standard $SU_{q}(n)$ R-matrices, we introduce quantum
spheres $S_{q}^{2n-1}$, projective quantum spaces $CP_{q}^{n-1}$, and quantum
Grassmann manifolds $G_{k}(C_{q}^{n})$. These algebras are shown to be
homogeneous quantum spaces of standard quantum groups and are also quantum
principle bundles in the sense of T Brzezinski and S. Majid (Comm. Math. Phys.
157,591 (1993)).

We consider the Hamiltonian theory for the multi-component KP hierarchy. We
show that the second Hamiltonian structures constructed by Sidorenko and
Strampp[J. Math. Phys. {\bf 34}, 1429(1993)] are not Hamiltonian. A candidate
for the second Hamiltonian Structures is proposed and is proved to lead to
hereditary operators.

The supersymmetric descent equations in superspace are discussed by means of
the introduction of two operators which allow to decompose the supersymmetric
covariant derivatives as BRS commutators.

In this paper the Maxwell field theory is considered on a closed and
orientable Riemann surface of genus $h>1$. The solutions of the Maxwell
equations corresponding to nontrivial values of the first Chern class are
explicitly constructed for any metric in terms of the prime form.

We show that a quantum field theoretic model of anyons cannot be ``free'' in
the (restrictive) sense that the basic fields create only one-particle states
out of the vacuum.

We introduce a new invariant for foliations using the even pairing between
K-homology and cyclic homology and discuss some possible applications in
physics.

In [Carey, A.L., J. Mickelsson, and M. K. Murray: Comm. Math. Phys. 183, 707
(1997)] Schwinger terms in hamiltonian quantization of chiral fermions coupled
to vector potentials were computed, using some ideas from the theory of gerbes,
with the help of the family index theorem for a manifold with boundary. Here,
we generalize this method to include gravitational Schwinger terms.

We make use of the properties of product integrals to obtain a surface
product integral representation for the Wilson loop operator. The result can be
interpreted as the non-abelian version of Stokes' theorem.

A new mathematical theory, non-associative geometry, providing a unified
algebraic description of continuous and discrete spacetime, is introduced.

We present three groups of examples of Wigner Quantum Systems related to the
Lie superalgebras $osp(1/6n)$, $sl(1/3n)$ and $sl(n/3)$ and discuss shortly
their physical features. In the case of $sl(1/3n)$ we indicate that the
underlying geometry is noncommutative.

A low energy bound in a class of chiral solitonic field theories related the
infrared physics of the SU(N) Yang-Mills theory is established.

We observe a correspondence between the zero modes of superconformal algebras
$S'(2, 1)$ and W(4) and the Lie superalgebras formed by classical operators
appearing in the K{\"a}hler and hyper-K{\"a}hler geometry.

It is shown that three series of diagrams entering the calculation of some
hot $QCD$ process, are mass (or collinear) singularity free, indeed. This
generalizes a result which was recently established up to the third non trivial
order of (thermal) Perturbation Theory.

Adelic quantum mechanics is formulated. The corresponding model of the
harmonic oscillator is considered. The adelic harmonic oscillator exhibits many
interesting features. One of them is a softening of the uncertainty relation.

This is an extended abstract of a lecture held at the Conference ``Fourier
and Radon transformations on symmetric spaces'' in honor of Professor S.
Helgason's 65th birthday, Roskilde, Denmark, Sept. 10--12, 1992.

This is a list of corrections for the book: J. Noguchi and T. Ochiai,
Geometric Function Theory in Several Complex Variables, xi + 282 pp., Math.\
Monographs Vol.\ {\bf 80}, Amer.\ Math.\ Soc., Providence, 1990. The authors
hope that this distribution will be helpful for readers to avoid unnecessary
confusions.

We clarify the question whether for a smooth curve of polynomials one can
choose the roots smoothly and related questions. Applications to perturbation
theory of operators are given.

In this paper we complete the proof of Ryba's modular moonshine conjectures.
We do this by applying Hodge theory to the cohomology of the monster Lie
algebra over the ring of p-adic integers in order to calculate the Tate
cohomology groups of elements of the monster acting on the monster vertex
algebra.

We introduce an affinization of the quantum Kac-Moody algebra associated to a
symmetric generalized Cartan matrix. Based on the affinization, we construct a
representation of the quantum Kac-Moody algebra by vertex operators from
bosonic fields. We also obtain a combinatorial indentity about Hall-Littlewood
polynomials.

This paper argues that automated proofs of identities for non-terminating
hypergeometric series are feasible by a combination of Zeilberger's algorithm
and asymptotic estimates. For two analogues of Saalsch\"utz' summation formula
in the non-terminating case this is illustrated.

We determine the quantum automorphism groups of finite spaces and find they
are all compact quantum groups in the sense of Woronowicz. This solves a
problem of Connes for finite spaces.

The questions when two Morse function on closed manifolds are conjugated is
investigated. Using the handle decompositions of manifolds the condition of
conjugation is formulated. For each Morse function on 3-manifold the ordered
generalized Heegaard diagram is built. The criteria of Morse function
conjugation are given in the terms of equivalence of such diagrams.

This paper aims to study canonical pencils of higher dimensional projective
varieties. It seems that the geometric genus of the general fibre for the
derived fibration from the canonical pencil for a 3-fold of general type does
not have an upper bound.

Using face algebras (i.e. algebras of L-operators of IRF models), we
construct modular tensor categories with positive definite inner product, whose
fusion rules and S-matrices are the same as (or slightly different from) those
obtained by $U_q (\frak{sl}_{N})$ at roots of unity. Also we obtain state-sums
of ABF models on framed links which give quantum SU(2)-invariants of
corresponding 3-manifolds.

We look for a parallel to the notion of ``proper forcing'' among
lambda-complete forcing notions not collapsing lambda^+ . We suggest such a
definition and prove that it is preserved by suitable iterations.

We provide theorems containnig both Kakutani and Browder fixed points
theorems as immediate corollaries, as well as Michael and Browder selection
theorems. For this purpose we introduce convex structures more general than
those of locally convex and non-locally convex topological vector spaces or
generalized convexity structures due to Michael, Van de Vel and Horvath.

We present the Nahm transform of the doubly-periodic instantons introduced in
math.DG/9909069, converting them into certain meromorphic solutions of
Hitchin's equations over an elliptic curve.

We characterize contractible curves on proper normal algebraic surfaces in
terms of complementary Weil divisors. Using this we generalize the classical
criteria of Castelnuovo and Artin. As application we derive a finiteness result
on homogeneous spectra defined by Weil divisors on surfaces.

All local solutions of the two dimensional Einstein-Weyl equations are found,
and related to the compact examples which I obtained in "Moebius structures and
two dimensional Einstein-Weyl geometry" J. reine angew. Math. 504 (1998).

What kind of schemes are embeddable into good toric prevarieties? To shed
some light on this question, we construct proper normal surfaces that are
embeddable into neither simplicial toric prevarieties nor toric prevarieties of
affine intersection.

Using Maruyama's theory of elementary transformations, I show that the Brauer
group surjects onto the cohomological Brauer group for separated geometrically
normal algebraic surfaces. As an application, I infer the existence of nonfree
vector bundles on proper normal algebraic surfaces.

Working in characteristic two, I classify nonsmooth Enriques surfaces with
normal crossing singularities. Using Kato's theory of logarithmic structures, I
show that such surfaces are smoothable and lift to characteristic zero,
provided they are d-semistable.

A survey of problems, conjectures, and theorems about quasi-isometric
classification and rigidity for finitely generated solvable groups.

An A-loop is a loop in which every inner mapping is an automorphism. We
settle a problem which had been open since 1956 by showing that every
diassociative A-loop is Moufang.

The notion of a holomorphically symplectic manifold can be generalized to the
singular one. This paper studies the birational contraction maps between
symplectic varieties, and then describes the deformation of a symplectic
variety which has a symplectic resolution. Some examples are also included.

We reprove and strengthen some old difficult theorems of 4-manifolds by the
aid of recently discovered modern tools, which involve contact structures on
3-manifolds, compact Stein domains, etc.

We know the multiplicity of the adjoint representation of a semisimple Lie
algebra in its own exterior algebra, but how do its copies distribute
themselves between the exterior powers? The answer (the graded multiplicity) is
obtained with the aid of Macdonald polynomials.

The non-Archimedean spectral theory and spectral integration is developed.
The analog of the Stone theorem is proved. Applications are considered for
algebras of operators.

Iterative methods for the simultaneous determination of all roots of an
equation are dis-cussed. The multiplicities of the roots are assumed to be
known in advance. The methods are proved to have a cubical rate of convergence.
Numerical examples are given.

We present a classification of SU(2) instantons on $T^2\times\mathbb{R}^2$
according to their asymptotic behaviour. We then study the existence of such
instantons for different values of the asymptotic parameters, describing
explicitly the moduli space for unit charge.

Simple extensions of peripheric extended twists, introduced recently by
Lyakhovsky and Del Olmo, are presented. Explicit form of twisting elements are
given and it is shown that the new twists as well as peripheric extended twists
are suitable to deform inhomogeneous Lie algebras such as isu(n), iso(n), (1+n)
dimensional Schroedinger algebras and Poincare algebra.

We discuss some additivity properties of the simplicial volume for manifolds
with boundary: we give proofs of additivity for glueing amenable boundary
components and of superadditivity for glueing amenable submanifolds of the
boundary, and we discuss doubling of 3-manifolds.

We show how to combine Kesten's scaling relations, the determination of
critical exponents associated to the stochastic Loewner evolution process by
Lawler, Schramm, and Werner, and Smirnov's proof of Cardy's formula, in order
to determine the existence and value of critical exponents associated to
percolation on the triangular lattice.

We prove that there is no genus-2 curve over F_q whose Jacobian has
characteristic polynomial of Frobenius equal to x^4 + (1 - 2q) x^2 + q^2.
Maisner and Nart had observed (by direct computation) that this was true for
all q less than 65.

In math.CO/0111309, we used admissible permutations and a variant of the
Floyd-Warshall Algorithm to obtain an optimal solution to the Assignment
Problem and an approximate solution to the Traveling Salesman Problem. Here we
give a large, detailed illustration of how the algorithms are applied.

A finite connected CW complex which is a co-H-space is shown to have the
homotopy type of a wedge of a bunch of circles and a simply-connected finite
complex after almost $p$-completion at a prime $p$.

We use slicing by nongeneric pencils of hypersurfaces and prove a new theorem
of Lefschetz type for singular non compact spaces, at the homotopy level. As
applications, we derive results on the topology of the fibres of polynomial
functions or the topology of complements of hypersurfaces in $\mathbb C^n$.

A proposal of the concept of $n$-regular obstructed categories is given. The
corresponding regularity conditions for mappings, morphisms and related
structures in categories are considered. An n-regular TQFT is introduced. It is
shown the connection of time reversibility with the regularity.

We prove that all arrangements (consistent with the Rolle theorem and some
other natural restrictions) of the real roots of a real polynomial and of its
$s$-th derivative are realizable by real polynomials.

A motivated q-extension of the values of the Riemann zeta function at
positive integers is presented. Several irrationality and transcendence results
as well as new general problems for these q-zeta values are stated.

An asymptotic expansion for a ratio of products of gamma functions is
derived.

Boardman, Johnson, and Wilson gave a precise formulation for an unstable
algebra over a generalized cohomology theory. Modifying their definition
slightly in the case of complex K-theory by taking into account its
periodicity, we prove that an unstable algebra for complex $K$-theory is
precisely a filtered $\lambda$-ring, and vice versa.

We present a classical $r$-matrix for the Hitchin system without marked
points on an arbitrary non-degenerate algebraic curve of genus $g\ge 2$ using
Tyurin parameterization of holomorphic vector bundles.

In this note we build on our previous work with Takehiko Yasuda to prove a
precise version of inversion of adjunction for varieties which are local
complete intersections.

We study the nonlinear Schrodinger equations with a linear potential. A
change of variables makes it possible to deduce results concerning finite time
blow up and scattering theory from the case with no potential.

We show that matrices in the same orbit of the SO(n, n|Z) action on the space
of n\times n skew-symmetric matrices give strong Morita equivalent
noncommutative tori, both at the C*-algebra level and at the smooth algebra
level. This proves a conjecture of Rieffel and Schwarz.

Recently N. Levin (Comp. Math. 127 (2001), 1--21) proved the Tate conjecture
for ordinary cubic fourfolds over finite fields. In this paper we prove the
Tate conjecture for self-products of ordinary cubic fourfolds. Our proof is
based on properties of so called polynomials of K3 type introduced by the
author (Duke Math. J. 72 (1993), 65--83).

Several problems involving $E(T)$ and $E_2(T)$, the error terms in the mean
square and mean fourth moment formula for $|\zeta(1/2+it)}$ are discussed. In
particular, it is proved that $$ \int_0^T E(t)E_2(t)dt \ll_ T^{7/4}(\log
T)^{7/2}(\log\log T). $$

We give an explicit construction of special strongly pseudoconvex domains in
C^n of handlebody type, i.e., domains which are small tubes surrounding the
union of a quadratic strongly pseudoconvex domain with an attached totally real
handle. Among other results, we give another proof of Lemma 3.4.3. from the
paper of Y. Eliashberg, "Topological characterization of Stein manifolds of
dimension $>2$", Internat. J. Math., 1 (1990), 29--46.

We establish a braid of interlocking exact sequences containing the group of
homotopy self-equivalences of a smooth or topological 4-manifold. The braid is
computed for manifolds whose fundamental group is finite of odd order.

We give the explicit analytic development of any Jack or Macdonald polynomial
in terms of elementary (resp. modified complete) symmetric functions. These two
developments are obtained by inverting the Pieri formula.

It is known that Plotkin's reduction theorem is very important for his theory
of universal algebraic geometry [arXiv:math. GM/0210187], [arXiv:math.
GM/0210194]. It turns out that this theorem can be generalized to arbitrary
categories containing two special objects and in this case its proof becomes
considerable more simple. This new proof and applications are the subject of
the present paper.

A two cocycle is associated to any action of a Lie group on a symplectic
manifold. This allows to enlarge the concept of anomaly in classical dynamical
systems considered by F. Toppan [in J. Nonlinear Math. Phys. 8, no.3 (2001)
518-533] so as to encompass some extensions of Lie algebras related to
noncanonical actions.

We establish a number of extensions of the well-poised Bailey lemma and
elliptic well-poised Bailey lemma. As application we prove some new
transformation formulae for basic and elliptic hypergeometric series, and embed
some recent identities of Andrews, Berkovich and Spiridonov in a well-poised
Bailey tree.

This note investigates two long-standing conjectures on the Krull dimension
of integer-valued polynomial rings and of polynomial rings, respectively, in
the context of (locally) essential domains.

We reduce the calculation of the simplest Hodge integrals to some sums over
decorated trees. Since Hodge integrals are already calculated, this gives a
proof of a rather interesting combinatorial theorem and a new representation of
Bernoulli numbers.

The notion of integral Bailey pairs is introduced. Using the single variable
elliptic beta integral, we construct an infinite binary tree of identities for
elliptic hypergeometric integrals. Two particular sequences of identities are
explicitly described.

If a sequence $(a_n)$ of non-negative real numbers has ``best possible''
distribution in arithmetic progressions, Bombieri showed that one can deduce an
asymptotic formula for the sum $\sum_{n\le x} a_n \Lambda_k(n)$ for $k\ge 2$.
By constructing appropriate sequences, we show that any weakening of the
well-distribution property is not sufficient to deduce the same conclusion.

We obtain results on approximation of holomorphic maps by algebraic maps, jet
transversality theorems for holomorphic and algebraic maps, and the homotopy
principle for holomorphic submersions of Stein manifolds to certain algebraic
manifolds.

We describe all irreducible conformal subalgebras of Cend_N. The
classification of simple and semisimple associative conformal algebras with
finite faithful representation follows from this description.

The sequence of period 6 starting with 1, 1, 0, -1, -1, 0 appears in many
different disguises in mathematics. Various q-versions of this sequence are
found, and their relations with Euler's pentagonal numbers theorem and
Chebyshev polynomials are discussed.

We prove that certain linear operators preserve the P\'olya frequency
property and real-rootedness, and apply our results to settle some conjectures
and open problems in combinatorics proposed by B\'ona, Brenti and
Reiner-Welker.

We compute the cobordism ring $MU^*(BG)\otimes \mathbb{F}_p$ when $G$ is a
Chevalley group. In the particular case of the general linear group, we prove
that it agrees with the Chow ring (as defined by Totaro).

An analytico-geometric reflection principle is established by means of normal
deformations of analytic discs.

There are two natural metrics defined on an arbitrary convex cone: Thompson's
part metric and Hilbert's projective metric. For both, we establish an
inequality giving information about how far the metric is from being
non-positively curved.

The article is devoted to the investigation of particular classes of
quasi-invariant descending at infinity measures on linear spaces over
non-Archimedean fields such that measures are with values in non-Archimedean
fields also. Their applications to stochastic processes and partial
pseudo-differential equations are given.

We investigate the distribution of the fractional parts of ag, where a is a
fixed non-zero real number and g runs over the imaginary parts of the
non-trivial zeros of the Riemann zeta function. The revision includes several
minor corrections.

In this paper, using techniques of value distribution theory, we give a
uniqueness theorem for meromorphic mappings of C^m into P^n with (3n+1) moving
targets and truncated multiplicities.

In this paper, we give some results on the number of meromorphic mappings of
C^m into P^n under a condition on the inverse images of hyperplanes in P^n. At
the same time, we give an answer for an open question by H.Fujimoto.

We present a new Liouville-integrable natural Hamiltonian system on the
(cotangent bundle of the) two-dimensional sphere. The second integral is cubic
in the momenta.

In this paper we show that on a general hypersurface of degree $r=3,4,5,6$ in
${\bf P}^5$ a rank 2 vector bundle $E$ splits if and only if $h^1 E(n)=h^2
E(n)=0$ for all $n \in \bf Z$.

We give a geometric construction of the Verma modules of a symmetric
Kac-Moody Lie algebra in terms of constructible functions on the varieties of
nilpotent finite-dimensional modules of the corresponding preprojective
algebra.

We study Auslander correspondence from the viewpoint of higher dimensional
Auslander-Reiten theory on maximal orthogonal subcategories. We give
homological characterizations of Auslander algebras, especially an answer to a
question of M. Artin. They are also closely related to Auslander's
representation dimension of artin algebras and Van den Bergh's non-commutative
crepant resolutions of Gorenstein singularities.

We show that every smooth toric variety (and many other algebraic spaces as
well) can be realized as a moduli space for smooth, projective, polarized
varieties. Some of these are not quasi--projective. This contradicts a recent
paper (Quasi--projectivity of moduli spaces of polarized varieties, Ann. of
Math. 159 (2004) 597--639.).

A polytope in the hyperbolic space $\H^n$ is called an {\it ideal polytope}
if all its vertices belong to the boundary of $\H^n$. We prove that no simple
ideal Coxeter polytope exist in $\H^n$ for $n>8$.

We show that the best constants appearing in the weak type (1,1) inequalities
satisfied by the centered Hardy-Littlewood maximal function associated to some
finite radial measures, such as the standard gaussian measure, grow
exponentially fast with the dimension.

We prove some extension theorems involving uniformly continuous maps of the
universal Urysohn space. We also prove reconstruction theorems for certain
groups of autohomeomorphisms of this space and of its open subsets.

We prove the existence of integral canonical models of unitary Shimura
varieties in arbitrary unramified mixed characteristic. Errata to [Va1] are
also included.

We completely revised the paper after the referee's comments. In the new
version, we replaced two erroneous examples, studied a link with earlier work
of Koh and Stilmann, and strengthened the main theorem.

We extend Haran's Diamond Theorem to closed subgroups of a finitely generated
free profinite group. This gives an affirmative answer to Problem 25.4.9 in the
book Field Arithmetics of Fried and Jarden.

For a compact metric space $K$ the space $\Lip(K)$ has the Daugavet property
if and only if the norm of every $f \in \Lip(K)$ is attained locally. If $K$ is
a subset of an $L_p$-space, $1<p<\infty$, this is equivalent to the convexity
of $K$.

We prove that a knowledge of the character degrees of a finite group G and of
their multiplicities determines whether G has a Sylow p-subgroup as a direct
factor. An analogous result based on a knowledge of the conjugacy class sizes
was known. We prove variations of both results and discuss their similarities.

We consider strictly ergodic and strictly weak mixing $C^*$-dynamical
systems. We prove that the system is strictly weak mixing if and only if its
tensor product is strictly ergodic, moreover strictly weak mixing too. We also
investigate some other mixing properties of the system.

In the paper we extent the notion of Dobrushin coefficient of ergodicity for
positive contractions defined on $L^1$-space associated with finite von Neumann
algebra, and in terms of this coefficient we prove stability results for
$L^1$-contractions.

An AF-algebra is assigned to each cusp form f of weight two; we study
properties of this operator algebra, when f is a Hecke eigenform.

We give a nonrecursive, combinatorial characterization of multiplicity-free
products of Grassmannian Schubert classes. This answers a question of W. Fulton
and extends results of J. Stembridge.

We construct an infinite family of homologous, non-isotopic, symplectic
surfaces of any genus greater than one in a certain class of closed, simply
connected, symplectic four-manifolds. Our construction is the first example of
this phenomenon for surfaces of genus greater than one.

Our main result is that a finitely generated nilpotent group has no isometric
action on an infinite-dimensional Hilbert space with dense orbits. In contrast,
we construct such an action with a finitely generated metabelian group.

We prove that any homotopy type can be recovered canonically from its
associated weak omega-groupoid. This implies that the homotopy category of
CW-complexes can be embedded in the homotopy category of Batanin's weak higher
groupoids.

In this paper we introduce the notion of orthogonally constant mapping in an
isosceles orthogonal space and establish stability of orthogonally constant
mappings. As an application, we discuss the orthogonal stability of the
Pexiderized quadratic equation $f(x+y)+g(x+y)=h(x)+k(y)$.

Some extensions of an inequality from IMO'2001 are proven by means of the
Lagrange multiplier criterion.

We prove the intersection of Igusa's Conjecture of [Igusa, J., "Lectures on
forms of higher degree", Lect. math. phys., Springer-Verlag, 59 (1978)] and the
Denef - Sperber Conjecture of [Denef, J. and Sperber, S., "Exponential sums mod
p^n and Newton polyhedra", Bull. Belg. Math. Soc., suppl. (2001) 55-63] on
nondegenerate exponential sums modulo p^m.

We prove a version of Fujita's Conjecture in arbitrary characteristic,
generalizing results of K.E. Smith. Our methods use the Frobenius morphism, but
avoid tight closure theory. We also obtain versions of Fujita's Conjecture for
coherent sheaves with certain ampleness properties.

This paper presents a number of problems about mapping class groups and
moduli space. The paper will appear in the book "Problems on Mapping Class
Groups and Related Topics", ed. by B. Farb, Proc. Symp. Pure Math. series,
Amer. Math. Soc.

We give a general formulation of Jensen's operator inequality for unital
fields of positive linear mappings, and we consider different types of converse
inequalities.

In this note, we shall show that the Chow-stability and the Hilbert-stability
in GIT asymptotically coincide.

We introduce the notion of mutation of $n$-cluster tilting subcategories in a
triangulated category with Auslander-Reiten-Serre duality. Using this idea, we
are able to obtain the complete classifications of rigid Cohen-Macaulay modules
over certain Veronese subrings.

Given a multigraded algebra $A$, it is a natural question whether or not for
two homogeneous components $A_u$ and $A_v$, the product $A_{nu}A_{nv}$ is the
whole component $A_{nu+nv}$ for $n$ big enough. We give combinatorial and
geometric answers to this question.

We obtain average results on the Sato-Tate conjecture for elliptic curves for
small angles.

This paper presents fifteen problems about mapping class groups. It is an
expanded and updated version of the author's preprint "Ten problems on the
mapping class groups". The paper will appear in the book "Problems on Mapping
Class Groups and Related Topics", ed. by B. Farb, Proc. Symp. Pure Math.
series, Amer. Math. Soc.

A natural extension of Riemannian geometry to a much wider context is
presented on the basis of the iterated differential form formalism developed in
math.DG/0605113 and an application to general relativity is given.

The goal of this article is to give an elementary introduction to Dirac
geometry and group-valued moment maps, via pure spinors. The material is based
on my lectures at the summer school on 'Poisson geometry in Mathematics and
Physics' at Keio University, June 2006.

We study when Taylor resolutions of monomial ideals are minimal. We consider
monomial ideals with linear quotients. In particular, we determine precisely
the stable ideals and the monomial ideals with linear resolutions having the
miminal Taylor resolutions.

We compute the generic initial ideal of a complete intersection of embedding
dimension three with strong Lefschetz property and we show that it is an almost
reverse lexicographic ideal. This enable us to give a proof for Moreno's
conjecture in the case $n=3$.

The obstruction to the existence of global action-angle coordinates of
Abelian and noncommutative (non-Abelian) completely integrable systems with
compact invariant submanifolds has been studied. We extend this analysis to the
case of noncompact invariant submanifolds.

We consider a generalization of Calabi-Yau structures in the context of
$\alpha$-Sasakian manifolds. We study deformations of a special class of
Legendrian submanifolds and classify invariant contact Calabi-Yau structures on
5-dimensional nilmanifolds. Finally we generalize to codimension $r$.

We describe the first term of the $\Lambda_{k-1}\mathcal{C}$--spectral
sequence (see math.DG/0610917) of the diffiety (E,C), E being the infinite
prolongation of an l-normal system of partial differential equations, and C the
Cartan distribution on it.

Spatially homogeneous field theories are studied in the framework of
dynamical system theory. In particular we consider a model of inflationary
cosmology and a Yang-Mills-Higgs system. We discuss also the role of quantum
chaos and its application to field theories.

The concept of a crossed tensor product of algebras is studied from a few
points of views. Some related constructions are considered. Crossed enveloping
algebras and their representations are discussed. Applications to the
noncommutative geometry and particle systems with generalized statistics are
indicated.

The pseudoperturbative shifted - $l$ expansion technique PSLET is generalized
for states with arbitrary number of nodal zeros. Bound- states energy
eigenvalues for two truncated coulombic potentials are calculated using PSLET.
In contrast with shifted large-N expansion technique, PSLET results compare
excellently with those from direct numerical integration.

The link between the tratment of singular Lagrangians as field systems and
the canonical Hamiltonian approach is studied. It is shown that the singular
Lagrangians as field systems are always in exact agreement with the canonical
approach for the parametrization invariant theories.

We study invariance properties of the measures in the space of generalized
U(1) connections associated to Varadarajan's r-Fock representations.

We give a necessary and sufficient condition for the reality of the spectrum
of a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian admitting a complete set of biorthonormal
eigenvectors.

Cartan's moving frames method is a standard tool in riemannian geometry. We
set up the machinery for applying moving frames to cotangent bundles and its
sub-bundles defined by non-holonomic constraints.

In the paper by F. Calogero and author [Commun. Math. Phys. 59 (1978)
109-116] the formula for frequencies of small oscillations of the Sutherland
system ($A_l$ case) was found. In present note the generalization of this
formula for the case of arbitrary root system is given.

New upper and lower limits are given for the number of S-wave bound states
yielded by an attractive (monotonic) potential in the context of the
Schrodinger or Klein-Gordon equation.

We show that the basic results on the paper referred in the title [J. Phys.
A: Math. Gen. v. 35 (2002) 5333-5345], concerning the derivation of the Ermakov
invariant from Noether symmetry methods, are not new.

In 1980, Gasymov showed that non-self-adjoint Hill operators with
complex-valued periodic potentials of the type $V(x)=\sum_{k=1}^{\infty} a_k
e^{ikx}$, with $\sum_{k=1}^{\infty}|a_k|<\infty$, have spectra $[0, \infty)$.
In this note, we provide an alternative and elementary proof of this result.

In complete analogy with the classical situation (which is briefly reviewed)
it is possible to define bi-Hamiltonian descriptions for Quantum systems. We
also analyze compatible Hermitian structures in full analogy with compatible
Poisson structures.

We analyze asymptotic scaling properties of a model class of anomalous
reaction-diffusion (ARD) equations. Numerical experiments show that solutions
to these have, for large $t$, well defined scaling properties. We suggest a
general framework to analyze asymptotic symmetry properties; this provides an
analytical explanation of the observed asymptotic scaling properties for the
considered ARD equations.

In the paper, developing the idea of V. Sokolov et all. (J.Math.Phys. 40
(1999)6473 we construct recursion operators and hereditary algebra of
symmetries for many field and lattice systems.

Rational solutions for a $q$-difference analogue of the Painlev\'e III
equation are considered. A Determinant formula of Jacobi-Trudi type for the
solutions is constructed.

For the Bakirov system, which is known to possess only one higher-order local
generalized symmetry, we explicitly find a zero-curvature representation
containing an essential parameter.

We present a theory of compatible differential constraints of a hydrodynamic
hierarchy of infinite-dimensional systems. It provides a convenient point of
view for studying and formulating integrability properties and it reveals some
hidden structures of the theory of integrable systems. Illustrative examples
and new integrable models are exhibited.

In this review we explain interrelations between the Elliptic Calogero-Moser
model, integrable Elliptic Euler-Arnold top, monodromy preserving equations and
the Knizhnik-Zamolodchikov-Bernard equation on a torus.

Appropriate restrictions of Lax operators which allows to construction of
(2+1)-dimensional integrable field systems, coming from centrally extended
algebra of pseudo-differential operators, are reviewed. The gauge
transformation and the reciprocal link between three classes of Lax hierarchies
are established.

Properties of the $q$-ultraspherical polynomials for $q$ being a primitive
root of unity are derived using a formalism of the $so_q(3)$ algebra. The
orthogonality condition for these polynomials provides a new class of
trigonometric identities representing discrete finite-dimensional analogs of
$q$-beta integrals of Ramanujan.

The Bargmann representation is constructed corresponding to the coherent
states for a particle on a sphere introduced in: K. Kowalski and J.
Rembielinski, J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 33, 6035 (2000). The connection is
discussed between the introduced formalism and the standard approach based on
the Hilbert space of square integrable functions on a sphere S^2.

Relative to a given factoring of the Hilbert space, the decomposition of an
operator into a convex sum of products over sets of distinct 1-projectors, one
set linearly independent, is unique.

A variationally improved Sturmian approximation for solving time-independent
Schr\"odinger equation is developed. This approximation is used to obtain the
energy levels of a quartic anharmonic oscillator, a quartic potential, and a
Gaussian potential. The results are compared with those of the perturbation
theory, the WKB approximation, and the accurate numerical values.

We obtain a mathematically simple characterization of all functionals
coinciding with the von Neumann reduced entropy on pure states based on the
Khinchin-Faddeev axiomatization of Shannon entropy and give a physical
interpretation of the axioms in terms of entanglement.

Using a recent construction of observables characterizing the time of
occurence of an effect in quantum theory, we present a rigorous derivation of
the standard time-energy uncertainty relation. In addition, we prove an
uncertainty relation for time measurements only.

We compare the geometrical and physical properties of the maths-type coherent
states for $q>1$ with those of the same for $0 < q < 1$.

We consider a geometrization, i.e., we identify geometrical structures, for
the space of density states of a quantum system. We also provide few comments
on a possible application of this geometrization for composite systems.

An approach towards quantum games is proposed that uses the unusual
probabilities involved in EPR-type experiments directly in two-player games.

Invariant integrability criterion for the equations of hydrodynamical type is
found. This criterion is written in the form of vanishing for some tensor which
is derived from the velocities matrix of hydrodynamical equations.

Multivariable generalizations of the continuous Hahn and Wilson polynomials
are introduced as eigenfunctions of rational Ruijsenaars type difference
systems with an external field.

A lemma from elliptic theory is used to improve a recent result by Li
concerning the removability of an isolated point singularity from solutions of
the coupled Yang-Mills-Dirac equations.

We determine the necessary and sufficient combinatorial conditions for which
the tensor product of two irreducible polynomial representations of
$GL(n,\mathbb{C})$ is isomorphic to another. As a consequence we discover
families of Littlewood-Richardson coefficients that are non-zero, and a
condition on Schur non-negativity.

We compute decomposition of Frobenius push-forwards of line bundles on
quadrics into a direct sum of line bundles and spinor bundles. As an
application we show when the Frobenius push-forward gives a tilting bundle and
we apply it to study D-modules on quadrics.

We show the presence of a dense pure point spectrum on quantum graphs with
Maryland-type quasiperiodic Kirchhoff coupling constants at the vertices.

We prove that the ranks of the subsets and the activities of the bases of a
matroid define valuations for the subdivisions of a matroid polytope into
smaller matroid polytopes.

Following Deligne and Ribet (`Values of abelian $L$-functions at negative
integers over totally real fields.' Invent. Math. 59 (1980), 227-286) we prove
that the `torsion congruences' (as introduced in our paper `Non-abelian
pseudomeasures and congruences between abelian Iwasawa $L$-functions.' To
appear in Pure and Applied Mathematics Quarterly) hold and so reduce the `main
conjecture' of equivariant Iwasawa theory to the integrality of the logarithmic
pseudomeasure.

We show that L^2-bounded singular integral in metric spaces with respect to
general measures and kernels converge weakly. This implies a kind of average
convergence almost everywhere. For measures with zero density we prove the
almost everywhere existence of principal values.

The aim of this note is to extend the energy decay estimates from [J. Wirth,
J. Differential Equations 222 (2006) 487--514] to a broader class of
time-dependent dissipation including very fast oscillations. This is achieved
using stabilisation conditions on the coefficient in the spirit of [F.
Hirosawa, Math. Ann. 339/4 (2007) 819--839].

We have introduced the Janet's algorithm for the Stanley decomposition of a
monomial ideal I in a polynomial ring S = K[x_1,...,x_n] and prove that Janet's
algorithm gives the squarefree Stanley decomposition of S/I for a squarefree
monomial ideal I. We have also shown that the Janet's algorithm gives a
partition of a simplicial complex.

Recently, Granville and Soundararajan have made fundamental breakthroughs in
the study of character sums. Building on their work and using estimates on
short character sums developed by Graham-Ringrose and Iwaniec, we improve the
Polya-Vinogradov inequality for characters with smooth conductor.

The purpose of this article is to view the Penrose kite from the perspective
of symplectic geometry.

We extend the scope of B. Shapirovskii's results [B.E Shapirovskii, "Cardinal
invariants in Compact Hausdorff Spaces," Amer. Math. Soc. Transl. (2) Vol. 134,
1987, pp. 93-118] on the order of $\pi$-bases in compact spaces and answer some
questions of V. Tkachuk in [V.V. Tkachuk, "Point-countable pi-bases in
first-countable and similar spaces," Fund. Math. 186 (2005), pp.55-69].

We investigate generalized amenability and biflatness properties of various
(operator) Segal algebras in both the group algebra, L1(G), and the Fourier
algebra, A(G), of a locally compact group, G.

We show that an embedded minimal disk in R^3 with large curvature is
bilipschitz with a piece of a helicoid. Additionally, a simplified proof of the
uniqueness of the helicoid is provided.

Folloing the methods of Bushnell-Kutzko for general linear groups, we
construct simple types attached to certain skew simple strata for a symplectic
group and an unramified unitary group over a non-archimedean local field.

We propose a definition of (polarized) wild twistor D-modules, generalizing
to objects with irregular singularities that of (polarized) regular twistor
D-modules. We give a precise analysis in dimension one.

In this paper we prove that the dimension of the bounded derived category of
coherent sheaves on a smooth quasi-projective curve is equal to one. We also
discuss dimension spectrums of these categories.

We show that a large class of non-metric, non-symplectic affine holonomies
can be realized, uniformly and without case by case considerations, by Weyl
connections associated to the natural AHS-structures on certain generalized
flag manifolds.

We describe the automorphism groups of elliptic Poisson algebras on
polynomial algebras in three variables and give an explicit set of generators
and defining relations for this group.

Fractional action-like variational problems have recently gained importance
in studying dynamics of nonconservative systems. In this note we address
multi-dimensional fractional action-like problems of the calculus of
variations.

Let G be an affine reductive algebraic group over an algebraically closed
field k. We determine the Picard group of the moduli stacks of principal
G-bundles on any smooth projective curve over k.

An inductive approach to classifying toric Fano varieties is given. As an
application of this technique, we present a classification of the toric Fano
threefolds with at worst canonical singularities. Up to isomorphism, there are
674,688 such varieties.

We construct a two-parametric family of exactly solvable Dirac Hamiltonians
by the Darboux transformation method. We obtain intertwining relations between
different members of the Hamiltonian family. We investigate the spectral
properties of the obtained Hamiltonians and the explicit forms of their
eigenfunctions.

We give the classification of elements - respectively cyclic subgroups - of
finite order of the Cremona group, up to conjugation. Natural parametrisations
of conjugacy classes, related to fixed curves of positive genus, are provided.

In this paper, after giving a criterion for a Noetherian local ring to be
quasi-Gorenstein, we obtain some sufficient conditions for a quasi- Gorenstein
ring to be Gorenstein. In the course, we provide a slight generalization of a
theorem of Evans and Griffith.

An upper estimate for the Lempert function of any $C^{1+\epsilon}$-smooth
bounded domain in $\Bbb C^n$ is found in terms of the boundary distance.

The resonant scalar particle generation for a swinging cavity resonator in
the Casimir vacuum is examined. It is shown that the number of particles grows
exponentially when the cavity rotates at some specific external frequency.

We show that every infinite-dimensional commutative unital C*-algebra has a
Hilbert C*-module admitting no frames. In particular, this shows that
Kasparov's stabilization theorem for countably generated Hilbert C*-modules can
not be extended to arbitrary Hilbert C*-modules.

We prove a ball-box theorem for nonsmooth Hormander vector fields of step s.

Two kinds of conditionings for one-dimensional stable L\'evy processes are
discussed via $ h $-transforms of excursion measures: One is to stay positive,
and the other is to avoid the origin.

In this paper we study the dense elements and the radical of a residuated
lattice, residuated lattices with lifting Boolean center, simple, local,
semilocal and quasi-local residuated lattices. BL-algebras have lifting Boolean
center; moreover, Glivenko residuated lattices which fulfill a certain equation
(that is satisfied by BL-algebras) have lifting Boolean center.

Invited book review, as submitted to the electronic database MathSciNet, of
the 2006 book by Tom Siegfried, "A beautiful math. John Nash, game theory, and
the modern quest for a code of nature" (Joseph Henry Press, Washington, DC).

The monoidal category of Soergel bimodules can be thought of as a
categorification of the Hecke algebra of a finite Weyl group. We present this
category, when the Weyl group is the symmetric group, in the language of planar
diagrams with local generators and local defining relations.

We prove that in a certain class E of nonseparable Banach spaces the norm
topology of the dual ball is definable in terms of its weak* topology. Thus,
any weak* homeomorphism between duals balls of spaces in E is automatically
norm-continuous.

We outline an alternative approach to the geometric notion of a saddle point
for real-valued functions of two variables. It is argued that this is more
natural compared to the usual treatment of this topic in standard texts on
Calculus.

The problem of exponentiating derivations of quasi *-algebras is considered
in view of applying it to the determination of the time evolution of a physical
system. The particular case where observables constitute a proper CQ*-algebra
is analyzed.

In 1990, J.L. Krivine introduced the notion of storage operator to simulate,
for Church integers, the "call by value" in a context of a "call by name"
strategy. In this present paper, we define, for every $\lambda$-term S which
realizes the successor function on Church integers, the notion of S-storage
operator. We prove that every storage operator is a $S-storage operator. But
the converse is not always true.

This paper is a study of the relationship between two constructions
associated with Cartan geometries, both of which involve Lie algebroids: the
Cartan algebroid, due to [Blaom A.D., Trans. Amer. Math. Soc. 358 (2006),
3651-3671], and tractor calculus [Cap A., Gover A.R., Trans. Amer. Math. Soc.
354 (2001), 1511-1548].

We show that 4-dimensional conjugation manifolds are all obtained from
branched 2-fold coverings of knotted surfaces in Z/2-homology 4-spheres.

Let K be a finite unramified extension of Q_p. We parametrize the (phi,
Gamma)-modules corresponding to reducible two-dimensional mod p representations
of G_K and characterize those which have reducible crystalline lifts with
certain Hodge-Tate weights.

We study resolvent estimates for non-selfadjoint semiclassical
pseudodifferential operators with double characteristics. Assuming that the
quadratic approximation along the double characteristics is elliptic, we obtain
polynomial upper bounds on the resolvent in a suitable region inside the
pseudospectrum.

We discuss properties of the complete Euler characteristic of a group G of
type FP over the complex numbers and we relate it to the L2-Euler
characteristic of the centralizers of the elements of G.

We show that any ancient solution to the Ricci flow which satisfies a
suitable curvature pinching condition must have constant sectional curvature.

We propose a modification of the predictions of the Cohen--Lenstra heuristic
for class groups of number fields in the case where roots of unity are present
in the base field. As evidence for this modified formula we provide a large set
of computational data which show close agreement.

It is proved, that if M is a connected, complete submanifold of a complex
space form N and each geodesic of M lies in an 1-dimensional totally geodesic
complex submanifold of N, then M is totally geodesic in N and is a real space
form or a complex space form.

We reprove the essential self-adjointness of the Dirichlet operators of
Dirchlet forms for infinite particle systems with superstable and
sub-exponentially decreasing interactions.

In this paper we consider the Sturm-Liuoville operator in the Hilbert space
$L_2$ with the singular complex potential of $W^{-1}_2$ and two-point boundary
conditions. For this operator we give sufficient conditions for norm resolvent
approximation by the operators of the same class.

We consider the notion of multiple gap as a finite set of ideals that cannot
be separated. We study the different types of such objects that can be found in
the Boolean algebra of subsets of the natural numbers modulo finite sets.

We investigate the polynomials $\sum_{k=0}^{n-1} c_n(k)x^k$ and
$\sum_{k=0}^{n-1} |c_n(k)| x^k$, where $c_n(k)$ denote the Ramanujan sums. We
point out connections and analogies to the cyclotomic polynomials.

For any transversal-Courant algebroid $E$ on a foliated manifold
$(M,\mathcal{F})$, and for any choice of a decomposition $TM=T\mathcal{F}\oplus
Q$, we construct a Courant algebroid structure on $T\mathcal{F}\oplus
T^*\mathcal{F}\oplus E$.

We propose an algebraic model of the conjectural triply graded homology of
Gukov, Dunfield and Rasmussen for some torus knots. It turns out to be related
to the q,t-Catalan numbers of Garsia and Haiman.

The notion of charge deficiency from Avron, Seiler, Simon (Charge deficiency,
charge transport and comparison of dimensions, Comm. Math. Phys. 159) is
studied from the view of $KK$-theory and is applied to the Landau levels in
$\C^n$. We calculate the charge deficiencies of the higher Landau levels in
$\C^n$ by means of an Atiyah-Singer type index theorem.

The purpose of this note is to show that the solution to the Kantorovich
optimal transportation problem is supported on a Lipschitz manifold, provided
the cost is $C^{2}$ with non-singular mixed second derivative. We use this
result to provide a simple proof that solutions to Monge's optimal
transportation problem satisfy a change of variables equation almost
everywhere.

We show how to derive new instances of the cyclic sieving phenomenon from old
ones via elementary representation theory. Examples are given involving objects
such as words, parking functions, finite fields, and graphs.

In this note we find all the solutions of the Diophantine equation $x^4\pm
y^4=iz^2$ using elliptic curves over $\mathbb Q(i)$. Also, using the same
method we give a new proof of Hilbert's result that the equation $x^4\pm
y^4=z^2$ has only trivial solutions in Gaussian integers.

In this paper, we find all integers $x$ such that $x^{2}-1$ has only prime
factors smaller than 100. This gives some interesting numerical corollaries.
For example, for any positive integer $n$ we can find the largest positive
integer $x$ such that all prime factors of each of $x, x+1,..., x+n$ are less
than 100.

We compute the von Neumann dimensions of the kernels of adjacency operators
on free lamplighter groups and show that they are irrational, thus providing an
elementary constructive answer to a question of Atiyah.

For any locally cartesian closed category E, we prove that a local fibered
right adjoint between slices of E is given by a polynomial. The slices in
question are taken in a well known fibered sense.

In this paper we present a new characterization of inner product spaces
related to the p-angular distance. We also generalize some results due to
Dunkl, Williams, Kirk, Smiley and Al-Rashed by using the notion of p-angular
distance.

We compute the algebraic K-theory modulo p and v_1 of the S-algebra ell/p =
k(1), using topological cyclic homology.

We construct time quasi-periodic solutions to the energy supercritical
nonlinear Schr\"odinger equations on the torus in arbitrary dimensions. This
introduces a new approach, which could have general applicability.

We establish new results on root separation of integer, irreducible
polynomials of degree at least four. These improve earlier bounds of Bugeaud
and Mignotte (for even degree) and of Beresnevich, Bernik, and Goetze (for odd
degree).

We construct higher-dimensional versions of the Diederich-Fornaess worm
domains and show that the Bergman projection operators for these domains are
not bounded on high-order $L^p$-Sobolev spaces for $1\leq p<\infty.$

In this addendum we generalize some results of our article "Generically split
projective homogeneous varieties", Duke Math. J. 152 (2010), no. 1, 155-173.
More precisely, we remove all restrictions on the characteristic of the base
field and complete our classification by the last missing case, namely
$\PGO_{2n}^+$.

We discuss a clean level lowering theorem modulo prime powers for weight $2$
cusp forms. Furthermore, we illustrate how this can be used to completely solve
certain twisted Fermat equations $ax^n+by^n+cz^n=0$.

In this paper, we show that those sequential products which were proposed by
Liu and Shen and Wu in [J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. {\bf 42}, 185206 (2009), J.
Phys. A: Math. Theor. {\bf 42}, 345203 (2009)] are just unitary equivalent to
the sequential product $A\circ B=A^{\frac{1}{2}}BA^{\frac{1}{2}}$.

We study in this article some Sobolev-type inequalities on polynomial volume
growth Lie groups. We show in particular that improved Sobolev inequalities can
be extended without the use of the Littlewood-Paley decomposition to this
general framework.

We give a new and self-contained proof of the finite generation of adjoint
rings with big boundaries. As a consequence, we show that the canonical ring of
a smooth projective variety is finitely generated.

We obtain geometric characterizations of isospectral minimal Riemannian
Legendre foliations on compact Sasakian manifolds of constant $\phi$-sectional
curvature.

We prove the irreducibility of universal Severi varieties parametrizing
irreducible, reduced, nodal hyperplane sections of primitive K3 surfaces of
genus g, with 3 \le g \le 11, g \neq 10.

We prove that a $C^{1,1}$-smooth bounded domain $D$ in $\C^n$ is linearly
convex if and only if the convex hull of any two discs in $D$ with common
center lies in $D.$

We prove general necessary optimality conditions for delta-nabla
isoperimetric problems of the calculus of variations.

We deduce from the work of Chen, that the restriction morphism from closed
free iterated integrals to closed iterated integrals on loops is onto. We use
this to show that the module of higher order invariants of smooth functions is
generated by free closed iterated integrals.

We give a complete answer to the questions of factoriality, type
classification and fullness for arbitrary free product von Neumann algebras.

Associated to a composition of M and a composition of N, a new presentation
of the super Yangian of the general linear Lie superalgebra $Y(gl_{M|N})$ is
obtained.

We prove a fixed point theorem for a family of Banach spaces, notably L^1 and
its non-commutative analogues. Several applications are given, e.g. the optimal
solution to the "derivation problem" studied since the 1960s.

We study the homological behavior of modules over local rings modulo exact
zero-divisors. We obtain new results which are in some sense "opposite" to
those known for modules over local rings modulo regular elements.

Type III_1 factors arising as (direct summands of) von Neumann algebraic free
products are investigated. In particular we compute Connes' Sd- and tau-
invariants for those type III_1 factors without any extra assumption.

The space of Minkowski valuations on an m-dimensional complex vector space
which are continuous, translation invariant and contravariant under the complex
special linear group is explicitly described. Each valuation with these
properties is shown to satisfy geometric inequalities of Brunn-Minkowski,
Aleksandrov-Fenchel and Minkowski type.

In this paper we obtain the structure equation of a contact-complex
Riemannian submersion and give some applications of this equation in the study
of almost cosymplectic manifolds with Kaehler fibres.

The purpose of this paper is to solve various differential equations having
Eisenstein series as coefficients using various tools and techniques. The
solutions are given in terms of modular forms, modular functions and
equivariant forms.

We show how eigenvalue estimates for linear operators can be used to obtain
new Blaschke type bounds on zeros of holomorphic functions on the unit disk.

We show that the Schur multiplier of $Sp(2g,\mathbb Z/D\mathbb Z)$ is
$\mathbb Z/2\mathbb Z$, when $D$ is divisible by 4.

We give a new short proof for the uniqueness of the universal minimal space.
The proof holds for the uniqueness of the universal object in every collection
of topological dynamical systems closed under taking projective limits and
possessing universal objects.

We prove an explicit formula of the Berezin star product on Kaehler
manifolds. The formula is expressed as a summation over certain strongly
connected digraphs. The proof relies on a combinatorial interpretation of
Englis' work on the asymptotic expansion of the Laplace integral.

Under the assumption of asymptotic relative Chow-stability for polarized
algebraic manifolds $(M, L)$, a series of weighted balanced metrics $\omega_m$,
$m \gg 1$, called polybalanced metrics, are obtained from complete linear
systems $|L^m|$ on $M$. Then the asymptotic behavior of the weights as $m \to
\infty$ will be studied.

An example of a four-dimensional special complex manifold with Norden metric
of constant holomorphic sectional curvature is constructed via a two-parametric
family of solvable Lie algebras. The curvature properties of the obtained
manifold are studied. Necessary and sufficient conditions for the manifold to
be isotropic K\"ahlerian are given.

We introduce mean dimensions for continuous actions of countable sofic groups
on compact metrizable spaces. These generalize the Gromov-Lindenstrauss-Weiss
mean dimensions for actions of countable amenable groups, and are useful for
distinguishing continuous actions of countable sofic groups with infinite
entropy.

The comparison type version of the fixed point result in ordered metric
spaces established by Nieto and Rodriguez-Lopez [Acta Math. Sinica (English
Series), 23 (2007), 2205-2212] is nothing but a particular case of the
classical Banach's contraction principle [Fund. Math., 3 (1922), 133-181].

We construct a non-doubling measure on the real line, all tangent measures of
which are equivalent to Lebesgue measure.

We give new Casson-Gordon style obstructions for a two-component link to be
topologically concordant to the Hopf link.

We study the geometry of complete generic Ricci solitons with the aid of some
geometric-analytical tools extending techniques of the usual Riemannian
setting.

In this note we improve an algorithm from a recent paper by Bauer and Bennett
for computing a function of Erd\"os that measures the minimal gap size $f(k)$
in the sequence of integers at least one of whose prime factors exceeds $k$.
This allows us to compute values of $f(k)$ for larger $k$ and obtain new values
of $f(k)$.

In this paper, the criteria for minimal Horseshoe Lemma to be true are given
via quasi-$\delta$-Koszul modules, which are the nongraded version of
$\delta$-Koszul modules first introduced by Green and Marcos in 2005. Moreover,
some applications of minimal Horseshoe Lemma are also given.

We prove upper bounds for Hecke-Laplace eigenfunctions on certain Riemannian
manifolds of arithmetic type. The manifolds under consideration are d-fold
products of 2-spheres or 3-spheres, realized as adelic quotients of quaternion
algebras over totally real number fields.

In this paper, we set up a general correspondence between the algebra
properties of $\bN$ and the sets defined by dynamical properties. In
particular, we obtain a dynamical characterization of C-sets, where C-sets are
the sets satisfying the strong Central Sets Theorem. As an application, we show
that Rado systems are solvable in C-sets.

This is a brief survey on the recently developing tropicalization method in
cluster algebras and its applications to the periodicities of Y-systems and the
associated dilogarithm identities.

We prove an infinite-dimensional generalization of Zenger's lemma that was
used in the proof of the fact that the convex hull of the point spectrum of a
linear operator is contained in its numerical range. Two relevant examples are
given, and possible application in the Arrow-Debreu model is also discussed.

A recent problem [B. Gardas, J. Math. Phys. 52, 042104 (2011)] concerning an
antilinear solution of the Riccati equation is solved. We also exemplify that a
simplification of the Riccati equation, even under reasonable assumptions, can
lead to a not equivalent equation.

This paper collects results and open problems concerning several classes of
functions that generalize uniform continuity in various ways, including those
metric spaces (generalizing Atsuji spaces) where all continuous functions have
the property of being close to uniformly continuous.

We compute the hyperbolic covolume of the automorphism group of each even
unimodular Lorentzian lattice. The result is obtained as a consequence of a
previous work with Belolipetsky, which uses Prasad's volume to compute the
volumes of the smallest hyperbolic arithmetic orbifolds.

We prove that if the neutral component in a finitely-generated associative
algebra graded by a finite group has a Shirshov base, then so does the whole
algebra.

We prove that the quotient by SL(2)\timesSL(2) of the space of bidegree (a,
b) curves on P^1\timesP^1 is rational when ab is even and a\not=b.

We complete the enumeration of the possible roots of the Alexander polynomial
(both conventional and over finite fields) of a trigonal curve. The curves are
not assumed proper or irreducible.

The Krohn--Rhodes complexity of the Brauer semigroup $\mathfrak{B}_n$ and of
the annular semigroup $\mathfrak{A}_n$ is computed.

Let f be a real or complex polynomial. We give an algorithm to compute the
set of generalized critical values. The algorithm uses a finite dimensional
space of rational arcs along which we can reach all generalized critical values
of f.

We prove that the 2-variable BMW algebra embeds into an algebra constructed
from the HOMFLY-PT polynomial. We also prove that the so(2N)-BMW algebra embeds
in the q-Schur algebra of type A. We use these results to construct
categorifications of the so(2N)-BMW algebra.

We show that a compact Kaehler manifold X is a complex torus if both the
continuous part and discrete part of some automorphism group G of X are
infinite groups, unless X is bimeromorphic to a non-trivial G-equivariant
fibration. Some applications to dynamics are given.

This paper contains new explicit upper bounds for the number of zeroes of
Dirichlet L-functions and Dedekind zeta-functions in rectangles.

We provide alternative proofs of two recent Grothendieck theorems for jointly
completely bounded bilinear forms, originally due to Pisier and Shlyakhtenko
(Invent. Math. 2002) and Haagerup and Musat (Invent. Math. 2008). Our proofs
are elementary and are inspired by the so-called embezzlement states in quantum
information theory. Moreover, our proofs lead to quantitative estimates.

The singularities of theta divisors have played an important role in the
study of algebraic varieties. This paper surveys some of the recent progress in
this subject, using as motivation some well known results, especially those for
Jacobians.

This paper is a survey of author's mathematical and logical study of the
problem of quantization of fields.

We prove that every bordered Riemann surface admits a complete proper
holomorphic immersion into a ball of C^2, and a complete proper holomorphic
embedding into a ball of C^3.

We prove that if the unit codisc bundle of a closed Riemannian manifold
embeds symplectically into a symplectic cylinder of radius one then the length
of the shortest nontrivial closed geodesic is at most half the area of the unit
disc.

We determine the conditions for the existence of $C^p$-roots of curves of
monic complex polynomials as well as for the existence of $C^p$-eigenvalues and
$C^p$-eigenvectors of curves of normal complex matrices.

We use the general theory developed in our article arXiv:1208.5510 in the
setting of parabolic geometries to reprove known results on special
infinitesimal automorphisms of projective and conformal geometries.

The aim of this paper is to give identities which are generalizations of the
formulas given by Koornwinder [J. Math. Phys. 30, (1989)] and Hamdi-Zeng [J.
Math. Phys. 51, (2010)]. Our proofs are much simpler than and different from
the previous investigations.

In this article, we construct new derived autoequivalences of generalised
Kummer varieties. Together with Huybrechts-Thomas twists around
$\mathbb{P}^n$-objects, these are the only known examples of such symmetries.

We introduce the foliated anti-self dual equation for higher dimensional
smooth manifolds with codimension-4 Riemannian foliations. Several fundamental
results are established, towards the defining of a Donaldson type invariant for
such foliations.

We study the spectrum of the Volterra composition operator in the space
$L_2[0,1]$

Minimal representations of a real reductive group G are the `smallest'
irreducible unitary representations of G. We discuss special functions that
arise in the analysis of L^2-model of minimal representations.

In this note, we extend the notion of a Monge hypersurface from its roots in
semi-Euclidean space to more general spaces. For the degenerate case, the
geometry of these structures is studied using the Bejancu-Duggal method of
screen distributions.

The gauge Brezis-Browder Principle in Turinici [Bull. Acad. Pol. Sci.
(Math.), 30 (1982), 161-166] is obtainable from the Principle of Dependent
Choices (DC) and implies Ekeland's Variational Principle (EVP); hence, it is
equivalent with both (DC) and (EVP). This is also true for the gauge
variational principle deductible from it, including the one in Bae, Cho, and
Kim [Bull. Korean Math. Soc. 48 (2011), 1023-1032].

For analytic functions f(z) in the open unit disk U with f(0)=f'(0)-1=0, R.
Singh and S. Singh (Coll. Math. 47(1982), 309-314) have considered some
sufficient problems for f(z) to be univalent in U. The object of the present
paper is to discuss some sufficient problems for f(z) to be some classes of
analytic functions in U.

Applying the subordination principle for analytic functions in the open unit
disk U, I. H. Kim and N. E. Cho (Comput. Math. Appl. 59(2010), 2067-2073)
considered some sufficient conditions for Carath\'eodory functions. The purpose
of this paper is to discuss some sufficient conditions for the class of
strongly Carath\'eodory functions in U.

We show that affine cones over smooth cubic surfaces do not admit non-trivial
$\mathbb{G}_a$ -actions.

In this paper we give a simpler proof of a deep theorem proved by Pellikan,
Shen and van Wee that all linear codes are weakly algebraic-geometric using a
theorem of B.Poonen.

We define the algebraic fundamental group functor of a reductive group scheme
over an arbitrary (non-empty) base scheme and prove that this functor is exact.

We prove weak approximation for smooth cubic hypersurfaces of dimension at
least 2 defined over the function field of a complex curve.

A well-posedness result for a time-shift invariant class of evolutionary
operator equations involving material laws with fractional time-integrals of
order $\alpha\in]0,1[$ is considered and exemplified by an application to a
Kelvin-Voigt type model.

In this paper, we study harmonic functions on weighted manifolds and harmonic
maps from weighted manifolds into Hadamard spaces introduced by Korevaar and
Schoen. We prove Liouville theorems for these harmonic maps with finite energy.

We explicitly construct parametrices for magnetic Schr\"odinger operators on
R^d and prove that they provide a complete small-t expansion for the
corresponding heat kernel, both on and off the diagonal.

We show the equivalence of several definitions of compact infra-solvmanifolds
that appear in various math literatures.

We give an introduction to the deformation theory of linear representations
of profinite groups which Mazur initiated in the 1980's. We then consider the
case of representations of finite groups. We show how Brauer's generalized
decomposition numbers can be used in some cases to explicitly determine
universal deformation rings.

We prove the global regularity of the solution pair to the N-dimensional
logarithmically supercritical magnetohydrodynamics system with zero
diffusivity. This is the endpoint case omitted in the work of [24]; it also
improves some previous results logarithmically.

We give a system of generators of the automorphism group of the singular $K3$
surface of discriminant 7. This system of generators consists of the inversion
involutions of some elliptic fibrations with a section together with ${\rm
PGL}_2(7)$.

It is proved that if $G=G_1*_{G_3}G_2$ is free product of probability measure
preserving $s$-regular ergodic discrete groupoids amalgamated over an amenable
subgroupoid $G_3$, then the sofic dimension $s(G)$ satisfies the equality \[
s(G)=\h(G_1^0)s(G_1)+\h(G_2^0)s(G_2)-\h(G_3^0)s(G_3) \] where $\h$ is the
normalized Haar measure on $G$.

This paper is a continuation of our earlier work "[T. Jin, Y.Y. Li and J.
Xiong, On a fractional Nirenberg problem, part I: blow up analysis and
compactness of solutions, to appear in J. Eur. Math. Soc.]", where compactness
results were given on a fractional Nirenberg problem. We prove two existence
results stated there. We also obtain a fractional Aubin inequality.

In this article we provide new explicit Chebyshev's bounds for the prime
counting function $\psi(x)$. The proof relies on two new arguments: smoothing
the prime counting function which allows to generalize the previous approaches,
and a new explicit zero density estimate for the zeros of the Riemann zeta
function.

This is an expository article based on my lectures on eigenfunctions of the
Laplacian for the 2013 IAS/Park City Mathematics Institute (PCMI) summer school
in geometric analysis. Many of the results are based on joint work with H.
Christianson, J. Jung, C. Sogge, and J. Toth.

We prove that the automorphism group of a Calabi-Yau threefold with Picard
number three is either finite, or isomorphic to the infinite cyclic group up to
finite kernel and cokernel.

We prove an extension theorem for Kahler currents with analytic singularities
in a Kahler class on a complex submanifold of a compact Kahler manifold.

Let $G$ be a finite group. A faithful $G$-variety $X$ is called strongly
incompressible if every dominant $G$-equivariant rational map of $X$ onto
another faithful $G$-variety $Y$ is birational. We settle the problem of
existence of strongly incompressible $G$-curves for any finite group $G$ and
any base field $k$.

We prove an explicit formula of hitting times in terms of enumerations of
spanning trees for random walks on general connected graphs. We apply the
formula to improve Lawler's bound of hitting times for general graphs, prove a
sharp bound of hitting times for adjacent vertices and derive closed formulas
of hitting times for some special graphs.

Using properties of skew-Hamiltonian matrices and classic connectedness
results, we prove that the moduli space $M_{ort}^0(r,n)$ of stable rank $r$
orthogonal vector bundles on $\mathbb{P}^2$, with Chern classes
$(c_1,c_2)=(0,n)$, and trivial splitting on the general line, is smooth
irreducible of dimension $(r-2)n-{r \choose 2}$ for specific values of $r$ and
$n$.

We prove that a cubic graph with $m$ edges has an induced matching with at
least $m/9$ edges. Our result generalizes a result for planar graphs due to
Kang, Mnich, and M\"{u}ller (Induced matchings in subcubic planar graphs, SIAM
J. Discrete Math. 26 (2012) 1383-1411) and solves a conjecture of Henning and
Rautenbach (Induced matchings in subcubic graphs without short cycles, to
appear in Discrete Math.).

Two inequalities concerning the symmetry of the zeta-function and the
Ramanujan $\tau$-function are improved through the use of some elementary
considerations.

This article establishes a new upper bound on the function $\sigma^{*}(n)$,
the sum of all coprime divisors of $n$. The article concludes with two
questions concerning this function.

The main result asserts the existence of continuous solutions of the complex
Monge-Amp\`ere equation with the right hand side in $L^p, p>1$, on compact
Hermitian manifolds.

We find two natural spherical functors associated to the Kummer surface and
analyse how their induced twists fit with Bridgeland's conjecture on the
derived autoequivalence group of a complex algebraic K3 surface.

Simple, separable, unital, monotracial and nuclear C$^*$-algebras are shown
to have finite nuclear dimension whenever they absorb the Jiang-Su algebra
$\mathcal{Z}$ tensorially. This completes the proof of the Toms-Winter
conjecture in the unique trace case.

Residual finiteness growth measures how well-approximated a group is by its
finite quotients. We prove that some related growth functions characterize
linearity for a class of groups including all hyperbolic groups.

We classify all compact simply connected biquotients of dimension 6 and 7.
For each $6$-dimensional biquotient, all pairs of groups $(G,H)$ and
homomorphisms $H\rightarrow G\times G$ giving rise to it are classified.

We show that the moduli space of parabolic bundles on the projective line and
the polygon space are isomorphic, both as complex manifolds and symplectic
manifolds equipped with structures of completely integrable systems, if the
stability parameters are small.

We discuss the mathematician George Bruce Halsted's accusations against Carl
Friedrich Gauss, as well as refutations both by the latter's American grandson
Robert Gauss in a letter to Felix Klein, and by the historian of mathematics
Florian Cajori.

Precise estimates for the Bergman distances of Dini-smooth bounded planar
domains are given. These estimates imply that on such domains the Bergman
distance almost coincides with the Carath\'eodory and Kobayashi distances.

In this paper, we study the second approximate Matsumoto metric on a manifold
M. We prove that F is of scalar flag curvature and isotropic S-curvature if and
only if it is isotropic Berwald metric with almost isotropic flag curvature.

We introduce the class of isotypic $2$-representations for finitary
$2$-categories and the notion of inflation of $2$-representations. Under some
natural assumptions we show that isotypic $2$-representations are equivalent to
inflations of cell $2$-representations.

We utilise characteristic identities to construct eigenvalue formulae for
invariants and reduced matrix elements corresponding to irreducible
representations of osp(m|n). In presenting these results, we further develop
our programme of constructive representation theory via characteristic
identities.

Functions that are holomorphic and Lipschitz in a smoothly bounded domain
enjoy a gain in the order of Lipschitz regularity in the complex tangential
directions near the boundary. We describe this gain explicitly in terms of the
defining function near points of finite type in the boundary.

We investigate the rearrangement of the Haar system induced by the postorder
on the set of dyadic intervals in $[0,1]$ with length greater than or equal to
$2^{-N}$. By means of operator norms on $\text{BMO}_N$ we prove that the
postorder has maximal distance to the usual lexicographic order.

We show that the image of the adelic Galois representation attached to a
non-CM modular form is open in the adelic points of a suitable algebraic group.
We also show a similar result for the adelic Galois representation attached to
a finite set of modular forms.

We prove the strong Weinstein conjecture for closed contact manifolds that
appear as the concave boundary of a symplectic cobordism admitting an essential
local foliation by holomorphic spheres.

It is shown that the weak multidimensional Suita conjecture fails for any
bounded non-pseudoconvex domain with $C^{1+\varepsilon_-}$-smooth boundary. On
the other hand, it is proved that the weak converse to the Suita conjecture
holds for any finitely connected planar domain.

We define an order relation among oriented $PD_4$-complexes. We show that
with respect to this relation, two $PD_4$-complexes over the same complex are
homotopy equivalent if and only if there is an isometry between the second
homology groups. We also consider minimal objects of this relation.

We present a new finite element method based on the formulation introduced by
Philippe G.~Ciarlet and Patrick Ciarlet, Jr. in [{\em Math. Models Methods
Appl. Sci., 15 (2005), pp. 259--571}], which approximates strain tensor
directly. We also show the convergence rate of strain tensor is optimal. This
work is a non-trivial generalization of its two dimensional analogue in [{\em
Math. Models Methods Appl. Sci., 19 (2009), pp. 1043--1064}]

We classify, up to homeomorphisms, the closed simply-connected 4-manifolds
that admit a Riemannian metric for which averages of pairs of sectional
curvatures of orthogonal planes are positive.

A generalization of the H\"older inequality is considered. Its relations with
a previously obtained improvement of the Cauchy--Schwarz inequality are
discussed.

We prove that on any compact complex manifold one can find Gauduchon metrics
with prescribed volume form. This is equivalent to prescribing the Chern-Ricci
curvature of the metrics, and thus solves a conjecture of Gauduchon from 1984.

The Brezis-Browder ordering principle [Advances Math., 21 (1976), 355-364] is
used to get a proof, in the reduced axiomatic system (ZF-AC+DC), of a fixed
point result [in the complete axiomatic system (ZF)] over Cantor complete
ultrametric spaces due to Petalas and Vidalis [Proc. Amer. Math. Soc., 118
(1993), 819-821].

We investigate when a computable automorphism of a computable field can be
effectively extended to a computable automorphism of its (computable) algebraic
closure. We then apply our results and techniques to study effective embeddings
of computable difference fields into computable difference closed fields.

We extend a result of W. Fulton, J. Harris and R. Lazarsfeld to secant loci
in symmetric products of curves. We compare three secant loci and prove the the
dimensions of bigger loci can not be excessively larger than the dimension of
smaller loci.

In this short note we give a formula for the number of chains of subgroups of
a finite elementary abelian $p$-group. This completes our previous work [5].

We formulate a conjectural hard Lefschetz property for Chow groups, and prove
this in some special cases: roughly speaking, for varieties with
finite-dimensional motive, and for varieties whose self-product has vanishing
middle-dimensional Griffiths group. An appendix includes related statements
that follow from results of Vial.

We prove that any embedded Maslov index two analytic disc attached to a
totally real torus in the complex two-dimensional affine space extends to an
analytic filling provided that the torus is contained in a regular level set of
a strictly plurisubharmonic function.

In this work type II Hermite-Pad\'e approximants for a vector of Cauchy
transforms of smooth Jacobi-type densities are considered. It is assumed that
densities are supported on mutually disjoint intervals (an Angelesco system
with complex weights). The formulae of strong asymptotics are derived for any
ray sequence of multi-indices.

We prove the consistency of
$\mathrm{add}(\mathcal{N})<\mathrm{cov}(\mathcal{N})<\mathfrak{p}=\mathfrak{g}=\mathfrak{s}<\mathrm{add}(\mathcal{M})=\mathrm{cof}(\mathcal{M})<\mathfrak{a}=\mathrm{non}(\mathcal{N})=\mathfrak{c}$
with ZFC where each of these cardinal invariants assume arbitrary uncountable
regular values.

We discuss the range spaces of Toeplitz operators with co-analytic symbols
where we focus on the boundary behavior of the functions in these spaces as
well as a natural orthogonal decomposition of this range.

We study the stability of disjointness preservers on Banach lattices. In many
cases, we prove that an "almost disjointness preserving" operator is well
approximable by a disjointess preserving one. However, this approximation is
not always possible, as our examples show.

We give an exposition of a theorem of Hirzebruch, Kodaira and Yau which
proves the uniqueness of the Kahler structure of complex projective space, and
of Yau's resolution of the Severi Conjecture.

We consider t-structures that naturally arise on elliptic fibrations. By
filtering the category of coherent sheaves on an elliptic fibration using the
torsion pairs corresponding to these t-structures, we prove results describing
equivalences of t-structures under Fourier-Mukai transforms.

We study a natural action of the Heisenberg group of integer unipotent
matrices of the third order on distribution space of a two-dimensional local
field for a flag on a two-dimensional scheme.

A famous pre-Newtonian formula for $\pi$ is obtained directly from the
variational approach to the spectrum of the hydrogen atom in spaces of
arbitrary dimensions greater than one, including the physical three dimensions.

We construct a compatible family of global cohomology classes (an Euler
system) for the symmetric square of a modular form, and apply this to bounding
Selmer groups of the symmetric square Galois representation and its twists.

In this paper we introduce and investigate the notions of diagrams and
discrete extensions in the study of finitary $2$-representations of finitary
$2$-categories.

The precise behavior of the quasi-hyperbolic metric near a $\mathcal
C^{1,1}$-smooth part of the boundary of a domain in $\mathbb{R}^n$ is obtained.

We give a description of the negative bundles for the energy integral on the
free loop space $L{\mathbb{C}\mathrm{P}}^n$ in terms of circle vector bundles
over projective Stiefel manifolds. We compute the mod $p$ Chern classes of the
associated homotopy orbit bundles.

These are notes from a course given in Orsay in 2002 explaining carefully the
Milnor-Thurston kneading determinant approach to dynamical zeta functions as
interpreted by Baladi and Ruelle (Invent. Math. 1996). We make them available
in view of the recent renewed interest in this approach. (see arXiv:1501.00294,
The Milnor-Thurston determinant and the Ruelle transfer operator, HH Rugh,
Comm. Math. Phys. 342 (2016) 603-614, and arXiv:1407.5313, Kneading with
weights, HH Rugh, Lei Tan, J. Fractal Geom. 2 (2015) 339-375)

We prove an analogue of Voiculescu's theorem: Relative bicommutant of a
separable unital subalgebra $A$ of an ultraproduct of simple unital C*-algebras
is equal to $A$.

We classify the finite groups whose non-linear irreducible characters that
are not conjugate under the natural Galois action have distinct degrees,
therefore extending the results in Berkovich et al. [Proc. Amer. Math. Soc.
{\bf 115} (1992), 955-959] and Dolfi et al. [Israel J. Math. {\bf 198} (2013),
283-331].

We determine the lower rank of the direct product of finitely many
hereditarily just infinite profinite groups of finite lower rank.

An asymptotically orthonormal sequence is a sequence which is 'nearly'
orthonormal in the sense that it satisfies the Parseval equality up to two
constants close to one. In this paper, we explore such sequences formed by
normalized reproducing kernels of model spaces and de Branges Rovnyak spaces.

In this article we extend cutting and blowing up to the nonrational
symplectic toric setting. This entails the possibility of cutting and blowing
up for symplectic toric manifolds and orbifolds in nonrational directions.

In this note, we show that if $T$ is a multilinear singular integral operator
associated with a kernel satisfies the so-called multilinear
$L^{r}$-H\"ormander condition, then $T$ can be dominated by multilinear sparse
operators.

Looijenga's vanishing theorem on the moduli space of curves $M_g$ says that
the tautological ring vanishes above degree $g-2$. We prove an analogous result
for the tautological cohomology ring of the moduli space of K3 surfaces.

We study the pencils of minimal degree on the smooth curves lying on a K3
surface X which carries a fixed-point free involution. Generically, the
gonality of these curves is totally governed by the genus 1 fibrations of X

Manin's Conjecture predicts the rate of growth of rational points of a
bounded height after removing those lying on an exceptional set. We study
whether the exceptional set in Manin's Conjecture is a thin set.

We prove $\mathrm{L}^p$ bounds for the truncated simplex Hilbert transform
which grow with a power less than one of the truncation range in the
logarithmic scale.

We prove that a linear growth graph has finitely many horofunctions. This
provides a short and simple proof that any finitely generated infinite group of
linear growth is virtually cyclic.

We describe some motivations lurking behind the making of a Math exhibition.
In particular, we refer to MadeInMath and its two set-ups in Triennale di
Milano and Museo della Scienza in Trento (MUSE), where the life and works of
Italian mathematicians played an important role, like Guido Castelnuovo,
Federigo Enriques and Vito Volterra.

It is shown that any non-degenerate $\mathbb C$-convex domain in $\mathbb
C^n$ is uniformly squeezing. It is also found the precise behavior of the
squeezing function near a Dini-smooth boundary point of a plane domain.

We extend an operator P\'{o}lya--Szeg\"{o} type inequality involving the
operator geometric mean to any arbitrary operator mean under some mild
conditions. Utilizing the Mond--Pe\v{c}ari\'c method, we present some other
related operator inequalities as well.

A translation of the famous paper of Benoist and Quint, `Mesures
stationnaires et ferm\'es invariants des espaces homog\'enes I', Ann. Math. 174
(2011).

We introduce the Alexander-Beck module of a knot as a canonical refinement of
the classical Alexander module, and we prove that this new invariant is an
unknot-detector.

We show that the higher homotopy groups of the moduli space of
torus-invariant positive scalar curvature metrics on certain quasitoric
manifolds are non-trivial.

We give a sufficient condition, namely "Buzzard irregularity", for there to
exist a cuspidal eigenform which does not have integral p-adic slope.

In this paper we introduce the concept of inflexible $CR$ submanifolds. These
are $CR$ submanifolds of some complex Euclidean space such that any compactly
supported $CR$ deformation is again globally $CR$ embeddable into some complex
Euclidean space. Our main result is that any $2$-pseudoconcave quadratic $CR$
submanifold of type $(n,d)$ in $\mathbb{C}^{n+d}$ is inflexible.

Using an identity due to Gessel and Stanton and some properties of the
$p$-adic Gamma function, we establish a $p$-adic supercongruence for truncated
hypergeometric series ${}_7F_6$. From it we deduce some related
supercongruences, which extend certain recent results and confirm a
supercongruence conjecture.

Let $\pi$ be a cuspidal automorphic representation for GL(2)/$\mathbb{Q}$
that is self-dual. In this Note we show that there exists a positive upper
Dirichlet density of primes at which the associated Hecke eigenvalues of $\pi$
are larger than a specified positive constant.

We establish a maximum principle for a two-point function in order to analyze
the convexity of level sets of harmonic functions. We show that this can be
used to prove a strict convexity result involving the smallest principal
curvature of the level sets.

We prove the existence of a universal family over every component of the
moduli space of marked irreducible holomorphic symplectic manifolds. The
analogous result follows for the Teichmuller spaces.

We establish the C^{1,1} regularity of quasi-psh envelopes in a Kahler class,
confirming a conjecture of Berman.

Using our results about Lorentzian Kac--Moody algebras and arithmetic mirror
symmetry, we give six series of examples of lattice-polarized K3 surfaces with
automorphic discriminant.

We prove an estimate for Donaldson's $Q$-operator on a prequantized compact
symplectic manifold. This estimate is an ingredient in the recent result of
Keller and Lejmi about a symplectic generalization of Donaldson's lower bound
for the $L^2$-norm of the Hermitian scalar curvature.

We classify del Pezzo surfaces of Picard number one with log canonical
singularities admitting Q-Gorenstein smoothings.

We prove an interpolation formula for the values of certain $p$-adic
Rankin--Selberg $L$-functions associated to non-ordinary modular forms.

We show that one-dimensional circle is the only case for closed smooth metric
measure spaces with nonnegative Bakry-\'{E}mery Ricci curvature whose spectrum
of the weighted Laplacian has an optimal positive upper bound. This result
extends the work of Hang-Wang in the manifold case (Int. Math. Res. Not. 18
(2007), Art. ID rnm064, 9pp).

We show that the set of Fano varieties (with arbitrary singularities) whose
anticanonical divisors have large Seshadri constants satisfies certain weak and
birational boundedness. We also classify singular Fano varieties of dimension
$n$ whose anticanonical divisors have Seshadri constants at least $n$,
generalizing an earlier result of Liu and the author.

It is shown that if the squeezing function tends to one at an h-extendible
boundary point of a $\mathcal C^\infty$-smooth, bounded pseudoconvex domain,
then the point is strictly pseudoconvex.

In this paper we correct an inaccuracy that appears in the proof of Theorem
1. in Czerwik's article "Contraction mappings in $b$-metric spaces.", Acta
Math. Inform. Univ. Ostraviensis, 1:5--11, 1993.

We study the Kostant-Lusztig $\mathbb A$-base of the multiparameter quantum
groups. To simplify calculations, especially for $G_2$-type, we utilize the
duality of the pairing of the universal $R$-matrix.

The Hodge algebra structures on the homogeneous coordinate rings of Grassmann
varieties provide semi-toric degenerations of these varieties. In this paper we
construct these semi-toric degenerations using quasi-valuations and
triangulations of Newton-Okounkov bodies.

We prove uniform $L^p \to L^q$ bounds for Fourier restriction to polynomial
curves in $\mathbb R^d$ with affine arclength measure, in the conjectured
range.

In this short note, using Siu-Yau's method [14], we give a new proof that any
n-dimensional compact Kahler manifold with positive orthogonal bisectional
curvature must be biholomorphic to $\mathbb{P}^n$.

We show that any virtual or welded period of a classical knot $K$ can be
realized as a classical period. A direct consequence is that a classical knot
admits only finitely many virtual or welded periods.

A new characterization of CMO(R^n) is established by the local mean
oscillation. Some characterizations of iterated compact commutators on weighted
Lebesgue spaces are given, which are new even in the unweighted setting for the
first order commutators.

An intrinsic quadric is a normal projective variety with a Cox ring defined
by a single quadratic relation. We provide explicit descriptions of these
varieties in the smooth case for small Picard numbers. As applications, we
figure out in this setting the Fano examples and (affirmatively) test Fujita's
base point free conjecture.

The splitting number can be singular. The key method is to construct a
forcing poset with finite support matrix iterations of ccc posets introduced by
Blass and the second author "Ultrafilters with small generating sets", Israel
J. Math., 65, (1989)

We prove the Nonvanishing Theorem for threefolds over an algebraically closed
field $k$ of characteristic $p >5$.

We classify the simple modules of the exceptional algebraic supergroups over
an algebraically closed field of prime characteristic.

We present a systematic study of Riesz measures and their natural exponential
families of Wishart laws on a homogeneous cone. We compute explicitly the
inverse of the mean map and the variance function of a Wishart exponential
family.

We construct solutions to the heat equation on convex rings showing that
quasiconcavity may not be preserved along the flow, even for smooth and
subharmonic initial data.

We derive an upper bound on the support of matrix coefficients of
suprecuspidal representations of the general linear group over a
non-archimedean local field. The results are in par with those which can be
obtained from the Bushnell--Kutzko classification of supercuspidal
representations, but they are proved independently.

We prove sharp two-sided global estimates for the heat kernel associated with
a Euclidean sphere of arbitrary dimension. This solves a long-standing open
problem.

We reinterpret the residue map for the Brauer group of a smooth variety using
a root stack construction and Weil restriction for algebraic stacks, and apply
the result to find a geometric representative of for the residue of a Brauer
class associated to a conic bundle, or more generally a Brauer-Severi bundle.

We show an analogue of Jordan's theorem for algebraic groups defined over a
field $\mathbb k$ of arbitrary characteristic. As a consequence, a Jordan-type
property holds for the automorphism group of any projective variety over
$\mathbb k$.

We study rational curves of degree two on a smooth sextic 4-fold and their
counting invariant defined using Donaldson-Thomas theory of Calabi-Yau 4-folds.
By comparing it with the corresponding Gromov-Witten invariant, we verify a
conjectural relation between them proposed by the author, Maulik and Toda.

We study the stochastic nonlinear Schr\"odinger equations with additive
stochastic forcing. By using the dispersive estimate, we present a simple
argument, constructing a unique local-in-time solution with rougher stochastic
forcing than those considered in the literature.

In this paper we introduce and study the lattice of normal subgroups of a
group $G$ that determine solitary quotients. It is closely connected to the
well-known lattice of solitary subgroups of $G$ (see \cite{5}). A precise
description of this lattice is given for some particular classes of finite
groups.

In this paper we prove a version of a trace Paley--Wiener theorem for
tempered representations of a reductive $p$--adic group. This is applied to
complete certain investigation of Shahidi on the proof that a Plancherel
measure is invariant of a $L$--packet of discrete series.

We characterize rational series over the free group by using an operator
introduced by A. Connes. We prove that rational Malcev--Neumann series posses
rational expressions without simplifications. Finally, we develop an effective
algorithm for solving the word problem in the free skew field.

In this note we show that the degree of the interpolation polynomial for
equidistant base points is characterized by the regularity of matrices of
combinatorical type.

Given a knot in a closed connected orientable 3-manifold we prove that if the
exterior of the knot admits an aperiodic contact form that is Euclidean near
the boundary, then the 3-manifold is diffeomorphic to the 3-sphere and the knot
is the unknot.

This is a commentary on the article: David Aldous and Persi Diaconis, Longest
increasing subsequences: from patience sorting to the Baik-Deift-Johansson
theorem, Bull. Amer. Math. Soc. 36 (1999), no. 4, 413-432.

Answering a question of Glasner, we show that any finitely generated
nonabelian free group has a minimal null action which is a RIM non-open
extension of an effective strongly proximal action.

The aim of this work is to prove a conjecture related to the Combinatorial
Invariance Conjecture of Kazhdan-Lusztig polynomials, in the parabolic setting,
for lower intervals in every arbitrary Coxeter group. This result improves and
generalizes, among other results, the main results of [Advances in Math. {202}
(2006), 555-601], [Trans. Amer. Math. Soc. {368} (2016), no. 7, 5247--5269].

An irreducible, algebraic curve $\mathcal X_g$ of genus $g\geq 2$ defined
over an algebraically closed field $k$ of characteristic $\mbox{char } \, k = p
\geq 0$, has finite automorphism group $\mbox{Aut} (\mathcal X_g)$. In this
paper we describe methods of determining the list of groups $\mbox{Aut}
(\mathcal X_g)$ for a fixed $g\geq 2$. Moreover, equations of the corresponding
families of curves are given when possible.

We determine the minimum positive entropy of complex Enriques surface
automorphisms. This together with McMullen's work completes the determination
of the minimum positive entropy of complex surface automorphisms in each class
of Enriques-Kodaira classification of complex surfaces.

In this paper, we investigate spectral properties of explosive symmetric
Markov processes. Under a condition on its life time, we prove the
$L^1$-semigroup of Markov processes become compact operators.

We observe that the strong slope conjecture implies that the degree of the
colored Jones polynomial detects all torus knots. As an application we obtain
that an adequate knot that has the same colored Jones polynomial degrees as a
torus knot must be a $(2,q)$-torus knot.

We study odd numbers through a straightforward indexing. We focus in
particular on odd prime and composite numbers and their distribution. With a
counting argument, we calculate the limit of two sums and compare their
convergence rate.

We give a characterization of all pairs $(k,n)$ of positive integers for
which the ratio $$ \frac{1^k-2^k+3^k-\dots+(-1)^{n+1}
n^k}{1^k-2^k+3^k-\dots+(-1)^{n}(n-1)^k} $$ of two consecutive alternating power
sums is an integer.

We describe of the topology of the geometric quotients of 2n dimensional
compact connected symplectic manifolds with n-1 dimensional torus actions. When
the isotropy weights at each fixed point are in general position, the quotient
is homeomorphic to a sphere.

A new method for classifying naturally reductive spaces is presented. This
method relies on the structure theory of naturally reductive spaces developed
in \cite{Storm2018a} and the new construction of naturally reductive spaces in
\cite{Storm2018}. We obtain the classification of all naturally reductive
spaces in dimension 7 and 8.

We introduce the concept of fittings to symplectic fillings of the unit
cotangent bundle of odd-dimensional spheres. Assuming symplectic asphericity we
show that all fittings are diffeomorphic to the respective unit co-disc bundle.

A global weak solution of the biharmonic wave map equation in the energy
space for spherical targets is constructed. The equation is reformulated as a
conservation law and solved by a suitable Ginzburg-Landau type approximation.

In this note, we provide refined estimates of the following sums involving
the Euler totient function: $$\sum_{n\le x}
\phi\left(\left[\frac{x}{n}\right]\right) \qquad \text{and} \qquad \sum_{n\le
x} \frac{\phi([x/n])}{[x/n]}$$ where $[x]$ denotes the integral part of real
$x$. The above summations were recently considered by Bordell\`es et al. and
Wu.

We prove a lower bound for the large sieve with square moduli.

Let $R$ be a commutative noetherian local ring. We define a new invariant for
$R$-modules which we call the little dimension. Using it, we extend the
improved new intersection theorem.

We study some basic properties and examples of Hermitian metrics on complex
manifolds whose traces of the curvature of the Chern connection are
proportional to the metric itself.

We show that every continuous action of a finite group on a smooth
three-manifold is a uniform limit of smooth actions.

We prove that K\"uchle fourfolds $X$ of type d3 have a multiplicative
Chow-K\"unneth decomposition. We present some consequences for the Chow ring of
$X$.

We prove an extension of the Bourgain-Sarnak-Ziegler theorem and then apply
it to bound certain polynomial exponential sums with modular coefficients.

We extend the results of Xh. Z. Krasniqi [Acta Comment. Univ. Tartu. Math. 17
(2013), 89-101] and the authors [Acta Comment. Univ. Tartu. Math. 13 (2009),
11-24]. to the case where in the measures of estimations there are used
$r$-differences of the entries.

A proof of the main theorem of the Galois theory is presented using the main
theorem of symmetric polynomials. The idea originated from studying the
"M\'emoire sur les conditions de r\'esolubilit\'e des \'equations par radicaux"
of Evariste Galois. The motto "Read the masters" pays off.

We show that minimal models of log canonical pairs exist, assuming the
existence of minimal models of smooth varieties.

We classify real two-dimensional orbits of conformal subgroups such that the
orbits contain two circular arcs through a point. Such surfaces must be toric
and admit a M\"obius automorphism group of dimension at least two. Our theorem
generalizes the classical classification of Dupin cyclides.

We prove the $C^0$ estimate for the quaternionic Monge-Amp\`ere equation on
compact hyperK\"ahler with torsion manifolds. Our goal is to provide a simpler
proof than the one presented by Alesker and Shelukhin.

We study immersed surfaces in $\mathbb{R}^3$ which are critical points of the
Willmore functional under boundary constraints. The two cases considered are
when the surface meets a plane orthogonally along the boundary, and when the
boundary is contained in a line. In both cases we derive weak forms of the
resulting free boundary conditions and prove regularity by reflection.

We construct two-parameter analytic families of Galois cohomology classes
interpolating the etale Abel--Jacobi images of generalised Heegner cycles, with
both the modular form and Grossencharacter varying in p-adic families.

We pose a conjecture about Morse-type integrals in nef (1,1) classes on
compact Hermitian manifolds, and we show that it holds for semipositive
classes, or when the manifold admits certain special Hermitian metrics.

We consider the complex Monge-Amp\`ere equation with an additional linear
gradient term inside the determinant. We prove existence and uniqueness of
solutions to this equation on compact Hermitian manifolds.

In this paper, we prove a minimal modularity lifting theorem for Galois
representations (conjecturally) associated to Siegel modular forms of genus two
which are holomorphic limits of discrete series at infinity.

These notes are an introduction to some basic aspects of the
Castelnuovo-Mumford regularity and related topics such as weak regularity,
a*-invariant and partial regularities.

We show that two closed, connected $4$-manifolds with finite fundamental
groups are $\mathbb{CP}^2$-stably homeomorphic if and only if their quadratic
$2$-types are stably isomorphic and their Kirby-Siebenmann invariant agrees.

We show that it is $\mathsf{NP}$-hard to approximate the hyperspherical
radius of a triangulated manifold up to an almost-polynomial factor.

The reduction number of monomial ideals in the polynomial $K[x,y]$ is
studied. We focus on ideals $I$ for which $J=(x^a,y^b)$ is a reduction ideal.
The computation of the reduction number amounts to solve linear inequalities.
In some special cases the reduction number can be explicitly computed.

In this paper, using blow-up analysis, we prove a singular
Hardy-Morser-Trudinger inequality, and find its extremal functions. Our results
extend those of Wang-Ye (Adv. Math. 2012), Yang-Zhu ( Ann. Glob. Anal. Geom.
2016), Csat\'{o}- Roy (Calc. Var. 2015), and Yang-Zhu (J. Funct. Anal. 2017).

In this paper, we investigate the weighted multilinear boundedness properties
of the maximal higher order Calder\'on commutator for the dimensions larger
than two. We establish all weighted multilinear estimates on the product of the
$L^p(\mathbb{R}^d,w)$ space, including some peculiar endpoint estimates of the
higher dimensional Calder\'on commutator.

In this article, we prove a normality criterion for a family of meromorphic
functions having zeros with some multiplicity which involves sharing of a
holomorphic function by the members of the family. Our result generalizes
Montel's normality test in a certain sense.

We define homogeneous principal Higgs and co-Higgs bundles over irreducible
Hermitian symmetric spaces of compact type. We provide a classification for
each type of object up to isomorphism, which in each case can be interpreted as
defining a moduli space.

In this short note, we give a refinement of our previous work
(arXiv:1803.05553) stating that for a projective $3$-fold $X$ of general type
with either $p_g(X)\leq 4$ or $p_g(X)\geq 11$, $$\text{vol}(X)\geq
\frac{4}{3}p_g(X)-{\frac{10}{3}}.$$

Let $n \geq 1$ be an odd integer. We construct an anticyclotomic Euler system
for certain cuspidal automorphic representations of unitary groups with
signature $(1, 2n-1)$.

We prove approximation results about sequences of Berezin transforms of
finite sums of finite product of Toeplitz operators (and bounded linear maps,
in general) in the spirit of Ramadanov and Skwarczynski theorems that are about
convergence of Bergman kernels.

In this note we compute the centers of the categories of tilting modules for
G=SL2 in prime characteristic, of tilting modules for the corresponding quantum
group at a complex root of unity, and of projective GgT-modules when g=1,2.

We prove one inclusion of the Iwasawa Main Conjecture, and the Bloch-Kato
conjecture in analytic rank 0, for the symmetric cube of a level 1 modular
form.

We discuss some classical and recent results and open problems on the
statistical behavior of ergodic sums above toral translations, and their
applications to Diophantine approximations and to ergodic properties of systems
related to quasi-periodic dynamics such as skew products, cylindrical cascades
and special flows.

We construct a ring homomorphism comparing the tautological ring, fixing a
point, of a closed smooth manifold with that of its stabilisation by $S^{2a}
\times S^{2b}$.

The classical theorem of Picard states that a non-constant holomorphic
function $f:\mathbb{C}\to\mathbb{C}$ can avoid at most one value. We
investigate how many values a non-constant slice regular function of a
quaternionic variable $f:\mathbb{H}\to\mathbb{H}$ may avoid.

We prove the special termination for log canonical pairs and its
generalisation in the context of generalised pairs.

We describe in which ways the Radford biproducts of certain eight-dimensional
Yetter-Drinfel'd Hopf algebras over the elementary abelian group of order 4 can
be written as extensions of Hopf algebras.

We provide a characterization of the finite dimensionality of vector spaces
in terms of the right-sided invertibility of linear operators on them.

The interior free boundary theory for linear elliptic operators in higher
dimensions was developed by Caffarelli in the low regularity context. In these
notes, the up-to-the boundary free boundary regularity is discussed for
nonlinear elliptic operators based on a different approach.

We prove that the maximal number of conics in a smooth sextic $K3$-surface
$X\subset\mathbb{P}^4$ is 285, whereas the maximal number of real conics in a
real sextic is 261. In both extremal configurations, all conics are
irreducible.

We give a necessary and sufficient condition for an extension of valuation
rings containing $\bf Q$ to be a filtered direct limit of smooth algebras.

We study locally standard $T^k$-manifolds $M$. In particular, we study the
case where there is a continuous section to the orbit map $\pi : M \rightarrow
M/T$. We give a classification of $T^k$-manifolds satisfying these conditions
up to equivariant diffeomorphism.

The three pencils of K3 surfaces of minimal discriminant whose general
element covers at least one Enriques surface are Kond\={o}'s pencils I and II,
and the Ap\'ery--Fermi pencil. We enumerate and investigate all Enriques
surfaces covered by their general elements.

We show that, for a (not necessarily continuous) weakly contractive mean-type
mapping $\mathbf{M} \colon I^p\to I^p$ (where $I$ is an interval and $p \in
\mathbb{N}$), the functional equation $K \circ \mathbf{M}=K$ has at most one
solution in the family of continuous means $K \colon I^p \to I$.
  Some general approach to the latter equation is also given.

We show that the links associated with positive elements of the Thompson
group $F$ coincide with the closures of bipartite arborescent tangles.

We prove that the Steinberg representation of a connected reductive group
over an infinite field is irreducible. For finite fields, this is a classical
theorem of Steinberg and Curtis.

Let $R = k[x_1,\ldots, x_n]$ be the polynomial ring in $n$ variables over a
field $k$ and let $I$ be a monomial ideal of $R$. In this paper, we study
almost Cohen-Macaulay simplicial complex. Moreover, we characterize the almost
Cohen-Macaulay polymatroidal Veronese type and transversal polymatroidal ideals
and furthermore we give some examples.

On complete noncompact Riemannian manifolds with non-negative Ricci
curvature, Li-Schoen proved the uniform Poincare inequality for any ge odesic
ball. In this note, we obtain the sharp lower bound of the first Dirichlet
eigenvalue of such geodesic balls, which implies the sharp Poincare inequality
for geodesic balls.

We prove that the Laptev--Safronov conjecture (Comm. Math. Phys., 2009) is
false in the range that is not covered by Frank's positive result (Bull. Lond.
Math. Soc., 2011). The simple counterexample is adaptable to a large class of
Schr\"odinger type operators, for which we also prove new sharp upper bounds.

This is a survey of results on the following problem. Consider a simply
connected Riemann surface spread over the Riemann sphere. How are the
properties of the uniformizing function of this surface related to the
geometric properties of the surface? Based on the lecture in U. Michigan in May
2006.

Given a $T$-sequence on a countable abelian group $G$, we prove that there
exists $2^{2^{|G|}}$ Hausdorff group topologies in which this sequence
converges to $0$. This answers a question posed in Intern. J. Math. Math. Sci.
{\bf 24}(3) (2000), 145-148.

Using elementary hyperbolic geometry, we give an explicit formula for the
contraction constant of the skinning map over moduli spaces of relatively
acylindrical hyperbolic manifolds.

We prove that any rational linear combination of Pontryagin numbers that does
not factor through the universal elliptic genus is unbounded on connected
closed spin manifolds of nonnegative sectional curvature.

In this paper, we first generalize a theorem for counting the number of faces
of an oriented embedding of a graph that passing through a given cut-edge set
[S. Stahl, Trans. Amer. Math. Soc. 259 (1980), 129--145] to all surfaces. Then
we extend Stahl's bounds for the average genus of the vertex-amalgamation of
graphs [S. Stahl, Discrete Math. 142 (1995), 235--245] to signed graphs.

Comparison and localization results for the Lempert function, the
Carath\'eodory distance and their infinitesimal forms on strongly pseudoconvex
domains are obtained. Related results for visible and strongly complete domains
are proved.

We show that the number of isomorphism classes of left braces of order 64
with additive group isomorphic to $C_4 \times C_4 \times C_4$ is 1\,515\,429.

We determine the optimal constant in the $L^{2}$ Folland-Stein inequality on
the H-type group, which partially confirms the conjecture given by Garofalo and
Vassilev (Duke Math. J., 2001). The proof is inspired by the work of Frank and
Lieb (Ann. of Math., 2012) and Hang and Wang.

Based on the truth of Feichtinger conjecture by Marcus, Spielman and
Srivastava \textit{[Ann. of Math. (2), 2015]} and from the localized version by
Gr\"{o}chenig \textit{[Adv. Comput. Math., 2003]}, we introduce the notion of
localization of approximate Schauder frames (ASFs) and approximate Riesz
sequences (ARSs). We show that localized bounded below ASFs are finite unions
of ARSs.

We show by (counter)example that the intersection of complemented submodules
in a Hilbert $C^*$-module is not necessarily complemented, answering an open
question from [MR].

With the boom of Large Language Models (LLMs), the research of solving Math
Word Problem (MWP) has recently made great progress. However, there are few
studies to examine the security of LLMs in math solving ability. Instead of
attacking prompts in the use of LLMs, we propose a MathAttack model to attack
MWP samples which are closer to the essence of security in solving math
problems. Compared to traditional text adversarial attack, it is essential to
preserve the mathematical logic of original MWPs during the attacking. To this
end, we propose logical entity recognition to identify logical entries which
are then frozen. Subsequently, the remaining text are attacked by adopting a
word-level attacker. Furthermore, we propose a new dataset RobustMath to
evaluate the robustness of LLMs in math solving ability. Extensive experiments
on our RobustMath and two another math benchmark datasets GSM8K and MultiAirth
show that MathAttack could effectively attack the math solving ability of LLMs.
In the experiments, we observe that (1) Our adversarial samples from
higher-accuracy LLMs are also effective for attacking LLMs with lower accuracy
(e.g., transfer from larger to smaller-size LLMs, or from few-shot to zero-shot
prompts); (2) Complex MWPs (such as more solving steps, longer text, more
numbers) are more vulnerable to attack; (3) We can improve the robustness of
LLMs by using our adversarial samples in few-shot prompts. Finally, we hope our
practice and observation can serve as an important attempt towards enhancing
the robustness of LLMs in math solving ability. We will release our code and
dataset.

We prove that if $G$ is a finite irreducible solvable subgroup of an
orthogonal group $O(V,Q)$ with $\dim V$ odd, then $G$ preserves an orthogonal
decomposition of $V$ into $1$-spaces. In particular $G$ is monomial. This
generalizes a theorem of Rod Gow.

The main result of the paper is that for any closed symplectic manifold the
spectral norm of the iterates of a Hamiltonian diffeomorphism is locally
uniformly bounded away from zero $C^\infty$-generically.

We define two types of rings, namely the so-called CSNC and NCUC that are
those rings whose clean elements are strongly nil-clean, respectively, whose
nil-clean elements are uniquely clean. Our results obtained in this paper
somewhat expand these obtained by Calugareanu-Zhou in Mediterr. J. Math. (2023)
and by Cui-Danchev-Jin in Publ. Math. Debrecen (2024), respectively.

In this paper, we revisit the problem of finite-time blowup for a
multi-dimensional nonlocal transport equation studied in [Dong, Adv. Math. 264
(2014) 747-761]. Inspired by a one-dimensional analogous model considered in
[Li-Rodrigo, Adv. Math. 374 (2020) 1-26], we establish a new weighted nonlinear
inequality implying the blow-up by a completely real variable based technique.

This paper describes the semantics and ideas about SKY, a logic programming
language intended in order to specify algorithmic strategies for the evaluation
of problems.

The author uses the entropy of the ideal Bose-Einstein gas to minimize losses
in computer-oriented languages.

I prove the Bloch conjecture:all secondary characteristic classes of flat
bundles over complex projective varietes are torsion, except the first.

By discussing the Cauchy problem, we determine the covariant equation of the
characteristic hypersurfaces in a relativistic superfluid theory.

The weak-field slow-motion limit of fourth-order gravity will be discussed.

We present exact solutions to the Einstein-Maxwell system of equations with a
specified form of the electric field intensity by assuming that the
hypersurface \{$t$ = constant\} are spheroidal. The solution of the
Einstein-Maxwell system is reduced to a recurrence relation with variable
rational coefficients which can be solved in general using mathematical
induction. New classes of solutions of linearly independent functions are
obtained by restricting the spheroidal parameter $K$ and the electric field
intensity parameter $\alpha$. Consequently it is possible to find exact
solutions in terms of elementary functions, namely polynomials and algebraic
functions. Our result contains models found previously including the superdense
Tikekar neutron star model [R. Tikekar, \emph{J. Math. Phys.} \textbf{31}, 2454
(1990)] when $K=-7$ and $\alpha=0$. Our class of charged spheroidal models
generalise the uncharged isotropic Maharaj and Leach solutions
  [S. D. Maharaj and P. G. L. Leach, \emph{J. Math. Phys.} \textbf{37}, 430
(1996)]. In particular, we find an explicit relationship directly relating the
spheroidal parameter $K$ to the electromagnetic field.

We propose one possible generalization of the KP hierarchy, which possesses
multi bi--hamiltonian structures, and can be viewed as several KP hierarchies
coupled together.

25th anniversary and new building dedication Centre de Recherches
Math\'{e}matiques Montr\'{e}al, Canada, October 1994

A simple solution of Witten's monopole equations is given.

Examples for bounded Bose fields in two dimensions are presented.

Starting from a conformal Haag-Kastler net in 1+1 dimensions, Wightman
functions are constructed.

We introduce a systematic approach for treating the large N limit of matrix
field theories.

Z_2-graded Schwinger terms for neutral particles in 1 and 3 space dimensions
are considered.

I review my results about noncommutative gauge theories and about the
relation of these theories to M(atrix) theory following my lecture on ICMP
2000.

The Hamiltonian formalism for the continuous media is constructed using the
representation of Euler variables in $\mathcal{C}^{2}\times \infty$ phase
space.

In this work we construct a ``Tsirelson like Banach space'' which is
arbitrarily distortable.

We construct a generic extension in which the aleph_2 nd canonical function
on aleph_1 exists.

The future of mathematics is described, by using the WZ algorithmic proof
theory as a parable.

How Enumerative Combinatorics met Special Functions, thanks to Joe Gillis

In this paper we compute the integral cohomology of the discrete groups
SL(2,Z[1/p]), where p is any prime.

In this paper we use families of finite subgroups to study Grothendieck rings
associated to certain discrete groups, such as the arithmetic ones.

In this paper we consider an analogue of the zeta function for not
necessarily prehomogeneous representations of GL(2) and compute some of the
poles.

This is an update of my problem list.

This is part one of a series of papers. In this series of papers, we consider
problems analogous to the Oppenheim conjecture from the viewpoint of
prehomogeneous vector spaces.

In this paper, we give an introduction to the rationality of the equivariant
Morse stratification, and state the author's results on zeta functions of
prehomogeneous vector spaces.

In this paper, we determine the rational orbit decomposition for two
prehomogeneous vector spaces associated with the simple group of type G_2.

The main result is that for lambda strong limit singular failing the
continuum hypothesis (i.e. 2^lambda > lambda^+), a polarized partition theorem
holds.

This paper surveys some results and methods in topological transformation
groups.

The main goal of this paper is to give a unified description for the
structure of the small quantum cohomology rings for all homogeneous spaces of
SL_n(C).

In this note, we consider applications of Ratner's theorem to constructions
of families of polynomials with dense values on the set of primitive integer
points from the viewpoint of invariant theory.

We study geometrical properties of maximal curves having classical
Weierstrass gaps.

We study and relate certain actions and extensions involving 2-groups.

Provides a counterexample to a long standing conjecture of A. Adem regarding
the behaviour of the integral cohomology of a p-group.

We endeavour a systematic approach for the removal of singularities for CR
functions on an arbitrary embeddable CR manifold.

We prove a partition identity conjectured by Lassalle (Adv. in Appl. Math. 21
(1998), 457-472).

We discuss exponential sums on affine space from the point of view of Dwork's
p-adic cohomology theory

We show that the zeta function of a regular graph admits a representation as
a quotient of a determinant over a $L^2$-determinant of the combinatorial
Laplacian.

For basic discrete probability distributions, $-$ Bernoulli, Pascal, Poisson,
hypergeometric, contagious, and uniform, $-$ $q$-analogs are proposed.

In this paper we prove the product formula for the c-function of
non-compactly causal symmetric spaces.

We show that a Tychonoff discretely star-Lindelof space can have arbitrarily
big extent and note that there are consistent examples of normal discretely
star-Lindelof spaces with uncountable extent.

Let X be a Stein manifold and let Y be a complex manifold which admits a
spray in the sense of Gromov (Oka's principle for holomorphic sections of
elliptic bundles, J. Amer. Math. Soc. 2, pp. 851-897 (1989)). We prove that for
every closed complex subvariety X_0 of X and for every continuous map f_0 from
X to Y whose restriction to X_0 is holomorphic there exists a homotopy of maps
f_t from X to Y whose restrictions to X_0 agree with f_0 and such that the map
f_1 is holomorphic on X. We obtain analogous results for sections of
holomorphic submersions with sprays over Stein manifolds or Stein spaces. Our
results extend those of Grauert (Holomorphe Funktionen mit Werten in komplexen
Lieschen Gruppen, Math. Ann. 133, pp. 450-472 (1957)) and Forster and Ramspott
(Analytische Modulgarben und Endromisbundel, Invent. Math. 2, pp. 145-170
(1966)).

In this note we give a p-adic proof of Hodge symmetry for smooth, projective
threefolds over complex numbers.

The first examples of exceptional terminal singularities are constructed.

One proves the Crew-Tsuzuki "p-adic local monodromy conjecture" (for local
fields of characteristic p>0).

We prove that the construction of our previous paper math.QA/0103190 yields
an invariant of tangle cobordisms.

Using the formalism of toric varieties, we describe how to make a monomial
application algebraically stable.

Let X = S \oplus G, where S is a countable abelian semigroup and G is a
countably infinite abelian group such that {2g : g in G} is infinite. Let pi: X
\to G be the projection map defined by pi(s,g) = g for all x =(s,g) in X. Let
f:X \to N_0 cup infty be any map such that the set pi(f^{-1}(0)) is a finite
subset of G. Then there exists a set B contained in X such that r_B(x) = f(x)
for all x in X, where the representation function r_B(x) counts the number of
sets {x',x''} contained in B such that x' \neq x'' and x'+x''=x. In particular,
every function f from the integers Z into N_0 \cup infty such that f^{-1}(0) is
finite is the representation function of an asymptotic basis for Z.

This note contains a correction to the paper, ``Local contribution to the
Lefschetz fixed point formula'', Inv. Math. 111 (1993), pp. 1-33.

We recover a recent result of A. Alekseev et E. Meinrenken (arXiv: math.
RT/0308135) by using our theory of generalized Harish-Chandra homomorphism for
symmetric pair.

We discuss continuity and upper semicontinuity of the Wu pseudometric.

We study Fano threefolds with Picard number one equipped with a holomorphic
section in $\Omega_V^1(1)$.

The asymptotic behaviour of partial sums of generalized hypergeometric series
of unit argument is investigated.

Let F be an orthonormal basis of weight 2 cusp forms on Gamma_0(N). We show
that various weighted averages of special values L(f \tensor chi, 1) over f in
F are equal to 4 pi + O(N^{-1 + epsilon}). A previous result of Duke gives an
error term of O(N^{-1/2} log N).
  The bound here is used in the author's paper "Galois representations attached
to Q-curves and the generalized Fermat equation A^4 + B^2 = C^p," (to appear,
Amer. J. Math.) to show that certain spaces of cuspforms arising there contain
forms whose L-functions have nonvanishing special value.
  Version of May 2005: Nathan Ng found an error in the earlier version which
yielded a bound too strong by a factor of log N; this is the corrected version,
as it will appear in Canad. Math. Bull. The change does not affect the
application to the Amer. J. Math. paper.

This paper is dedicated to Professor Endre Csakion the occasion of his 65th
birthday.

Plots of quadratic residues display some features that are analyzed
mathematically.

We give generalizations and simple proofs of some $q$-identities of Dilcher,
Fu and Lascoux related to divisor functions.

In this paper, the Almeida-Molino obstruction to developability of
transversely complete foliations is extended to Lie groupoids.

This note gives a short proof on characterizations of a forest to be
equitably k-colorable.

Recently, Lauritzen, Raben-Pedersen and Thomsen proved that Schubert
varieties are globally $F$-regular. We give another proof.

We show that any global solution to the special Lagrangian equations with the
phase larger than a critical value must be quadratic.

This is a renovated list of open problems, to appear in: "Affine Algebraic
Geometry" conference Proceedings volume in Contemporary Mathematics series of
the Amer. Math. Soc. Ed. by Jaime Gutierrez, Vladimir Shpilrain, and Jie-Tai
Yu.

We classify homogeneous degree $d\neq2$ solutions to fully nonlinear elliptic
equations.

This arXived paper has two independant parts, that are improved and corrected
versions of different parts of a single paper once named "On equations in
relatively hyperbolic groups".
  The first part is entitled "Existential questions in (relatively) hyperbolic
groups". We study there the existential theory of torsion free hyperbolic and
relatively hyperbolic groups, in particular those with virtually abelian
parabolic subgroups. We show that the satisfiability of systems of equations
and inequations is decidable in these groups.
  In the second part, called "Finding relative hyperbolic structures", we
provide a general algorithm that recognizes the class of groups that are
hyperbolic relative to abelian subgroups.

We prove that the symmetrized polydisc cannot be exhausted by domains
biholomorphic to convex domains.

This short note is an "elementary'' introduction to the conjectural theory of
motives.

Replaced by revised version.

We prove tight closure analogues of results of Watanabe about chains and
families of integrally closed ideals.

In this note, we present a simple directed graph proof of Sharkovsky's
theorem.

In [C. Mouhot and L. Pareschi, "Fast algorithms for computing the Boltzmann
collision operator," Math. Comp., to appear; C. Mouhot and L. Pareschi, C. R.
Math. Acad. Sci. Paris, 339 (2004), pp. 71-76], fast deterministic algorithms
based on spectral methods were derived for the Boltzmann collision operator for
a class of interactions including the hard spheres model in dimension three.
These algorithms are implemented for the solution of the Boltzmann equation in
two and three dimension, first for homogeneous solutions, then for general non
homogeneous solutions. The results are compared to explicit solutions, when
available, and to Monte-Carlo methods. In particular, the computational cost
and accuracy are compared to those of Monte-Carlo methods as well as to those
of previous spectral methods. Finally, for inhomogeneous solutions, we take
advantage of the great computational efficiency of the method to show an
oscillation phenomenon of the entropy functional in the trend to equilibrium,
which was suggested in the work [L. Desvillettes and C. Villani, Invent. Math.,
159 (2005), pp. 245-316].

This is a short tribute to Alexandr Alexandrov (1912--1999).

We classify endomorphisms of the plane that preserve a pencil of curves.

We give a simple explanaition of classical boson-fermion correspondence.

By resorting to Noether's Second Theorem, we relate the generalized Bianchi
identities for Lagrangian field theories on gauge-natural bundles with the
kernel of the associated gauge-natural Jacobi morphism. A suitable definition
of the curvature of gauge-natural variational principles can be consequently
formulated in terms of the Hamiltonian connection canonically associated with a
generalized Lagrangian obtained by contracting field equations.

We present an approach proving the integrability of the Camassa--Holm
equation for initial data of small amplitude.

A new definition for the electromagnetic field velocity is proposed. The
velocity depends on the physical fields.

Crum's seminal result of 1955 is archived here

Formalism of differential forms is developed for a variety of Quantum and
noncommutative situations.

One construction of exactly-solvable potentials for Fokker-Planck equation is
considered based on supersymmetric quantum mechanics approach.

We show that the entanglement cost of the three-dimensional antisymmetric
states is one ebit.

This paper has been withdrawn by the author.

I exemplify part of my recent work on the upper halfplane.

We extend to the context of locally C*-algebras a result of F. Combes [Proc.
London Math. Soc. 49(1984), 289-306].

One of the oldest open problems in the classical function theory is whether
every open Riemann surface admits a proper holomorphic embedding into C^2. In
this paper we prove the following Theorem: If D is a bordered Riemann surface
whose closure admits an injective immersion in C^2 that is holomorphic in D,
then D admits a proper holomorphic embedding in C^2. The most general earlier
results are due to J. Globevnik and B. Stensones (Math. Ann. 303 (1995),
579-597) and E. F. Wold (Internat. J. Math. 17 (2006), 963-974). We give an
explicit and elementary construction that does not require the Teichmuller
space theory, and we also indicate another possible proof using the latter
theory.

We show that it makes sense to speak of THE Frobenius manifold attached to a
convenient and nondegenerate Laurent polynomial

Groups, in which every subgroup containing some fixed primary cyclic subgroup
has a complement, are investigated.

The covering properties of Artinian rings which depend on their additive
structure only, are investigated.

We define and investigate a system of Riesz transforms related to the Dunkl
harmonic oscillator.

The paper deals with continuous solutions of a Schilling's problem.

We shall show that 9, 165 are all of the odd unitary super perfect numbers.

We extend a result of Hulanicki- Ricci to all H-type groups.

We prove formulas for the core of ideals that apply in arbitrary
characteristic.

We classify three-dimensional Fano varieties with canonical Gorenstein
singularities of degree bigger than 64.

We prove Kontsevich's cyclic formality conjecture.

We present a refinement, by selfimprovement, of the arithmetic geometric
inequality.

We give a group theoretic proof of the splitting of sharply 2-transitive
groups of characteristic 3.

We study the core Hopf algebra underlying the renormalization Hopf algebra.

An expository introduction to bidding chess and other bidding games. To
appear in Mathematical Intelligencer.

We point out that the {\em spacetime void} inferred by Castro[J. Math. Phys.
49, 042501, (2008)] results from his choice of a discontinuous radial gauge.
Further since the integration constant $\alpha_0 = 2M_0$ ($G=c=1$) occurring in
the vacuum Hilbert/Schwarzschild solution of a neutral "point mass" is zero
[Arnowitt et al., in Gravitation: An Introduction to Current Research, ed. L.
Witten, Wiley, Chap. 7, p.227; also Phys. Rev. Lett., 4, 375, (1960)]; A.
Mitra, Adv. Sp. Res., 38, 2917 (2006)] Castro's gauge reduces to the well
behaved and physical Hilbert gauge. Physically this means that true
Hilbert/Schwarzschild black holes have unique gravitational mass M=0.
Accordingly, the unphysical {\em spacetime viod} inferred by Castro is actually
non-existent.

Mori cone is rigid in smooth connected families of Fano manifolds.

The conjecture of Bollob\'as and Koml\'os, recently proved by B\"ottcher,
Schacht, and Taraz [Math. Ann. 343(1), 175--205, 2009], implies that for any
$\gamma>0$, every balanced bipartite graph on $2n$ vertices with bounded degree
and sublinear bandwidth appears as a subgraph of any $2n$-vertex graph $G$ with
minimum degree $(1+\gamma)n$, provided that $n$ is sufficiently large. We show
that this threshold can be cut in half to an essentially best-possible minimum
degree of $(\frac12+\gamma)n$ when we have the additional structural
information of the host graph $G$ being balanced bipartite. This complements
results of Zhao [to appear in SIAM J. Discrete Math.], as well as Hladk\'y and
Schacht [to appear in SIAM J. Discrete Math.], who determined a corresponding
minimum degree threshold for $K_{r,s}$-factors, with $r$ and $s$ fixed.
Moreover, it implies that the set of Hamilton cycles of $G$ is a generating
system for its cycle space.

We show a general lower bound for Mean-value of Dirichlet polynomials

An inequality concerning ratios of gamma functions is proved. This answers a
question of Guo and Qi (2003).

We review QFT from the algebraic structure of its perturbative expansion and
point out three new results.

We prove formulae for the Hodge numbers of big resolutions of singular
hypersurfaces satisfying a Bott-type vanishing condition.

We prove a new cross theorem for separately holomorphic functions.

We compute a quite explicit Koppelman formula for $dd^c$ on projective space,
and obtain Green currents for positive closed currents.

An automorphism $\alpha$ of a group $G$ is said to be central if $\alpha$
commutes with every inner automorphism of $G$. We construct a family of
non-special finite $p$-groups having abelian automorphism groups. These groups
provide counter examples to a conjecture of A. Mahalanobis [Israel J. Math.,
{\bf 165} (2008), 161 - 187]. We also construct a family of finite $p$-groups
having non-abelian automorphism groups and all automorphisms central. This
solves a problem of I. Malinowska [Advances in group theory, Aracne Editrice,
Rome 2002, 111-127].

In the following article a Ph.D. student of V.I.~Arnold gives a personal
account on his teacher who unexpectedly passed away earlier this year.

We obtain the approximate functional equation for the Rankin-Selberg
zeta-function on the 1/2-line.

In this paper some new ways of generalizing perfect numbers are investigated,
numerical results are presented and some conjectures are established.

We obtain comparison theorems for non-negative solutions of quasilinear
elliptic inequalities

We discuss constant mean curvature bubbletons in Euclidean 3-space via
dressing with simple factors, and prove that single bubbletons are not
embedded.

We investigate density of various subalgebras of regular generalized
functions in the special Colombeau algebra of generalized functions.

The aim of this paper is to present examples of Kahler holomorphically
pseudosymmetric metrics on the projective space CP^n.

A set of vertices $W$ resolves a graph $G$ if every vertex is uniquely
determined by its vector of distances to the vertices in $W$. A metric
dimension of $G$ is the minimum cardinality of a resolving set of $G$. A
bipartite graph G(n,n) is a graph whose vertex set $V$ can be partitioned into
two subsets $V_1$ and $V_2,$ with $|V_1|=|V_2|=n,$ such that every edge of $G$
joins $V_1$ and $V_2$. The graph $G$ is called $k$-regular if every vertex of
$G$ is adjacent to $k$ other vertices. In this paper, we determine the metric
dimension of $k$-regular bipartite graphs G(n,n) where $k=n-1$ or $k=n-2$.

We characterize minimal clones generated by a majority function containing at
most seven ternary operations.

We prove a conjecture of Kenyon and Smillie concerning the nonexistence of
acute rational-angled triangles with the lattice property.

We explain an error in our paper "A smooth foliation of the 5-sphere by
complex surfaces", Ann. Math 156 (2002), p.915-930.

In this article we show how Gr\"un's results in group theory can be used for
studying the structure of class groups in normal extensions.

Invariant functions and metrics are studied on various classes of domains in
$\Bbb C^n.$

We prove thermal expansion and Hooke-s law for crystals via an
one-dimensional microscopic model.

Some new semantic and syntactic characterizations of the members of the power
pseudovariety $\mathbf{PCS}$ are obtained. This leads in particular to new
algorithms for deciding membership in $\mathbf{PCS}$.

We investigate the a{\pm}ne circle geometry arising from a quaternion skew
field and one of its maximal commutative subfields.

We simplify construction of Thoma representations of an infinite symmetric
group

We give lower bounds for the Hausdorff dimensions of some model Furstenberg
sets.

In view of A. Andreotti and H. Grauert's vanishing theorem for q-complete
domains in C^n, (Th\'eor\`eme de finitude pour la cohomologie des espaces
complexes, Bull. Soc. Math. France 90 (1962), 193--259,) we re-prove a
vanishing result by J.-P. Sha, (p-convex Riemannian manifolds, Invent. Math. 83
(1986), no. 3, 437--447,) and H. Wu, (Manifolds of partially positive
curvature, Indiana Univ. Math. J. 36 (1987), no. 3, 525--548,) for the de Rham
cohomology of strictly p-convex domains in R^n in the sense of F. R. Harvey and
H. B. Lawson, (The foundations of p-convexity and p-plurisubharmonicity in
riemannian geometry, arXiv:1111.3895v1 [math.DG]). Our proof uses the
L^2-techniques developed by L. H\"ormander, (An introduction to complex
analysis in several variables, Third edition, North-Holland Mathematical
Library, 7, North-Holland Publishing Co., Amsterdam, 1990,) and A. Andreotti
and E. Vesentini, (Carleman estimates for the Laplace-Beltrami equation on
complex manifolds, Inst. Hautes \'Etudes Sci. Publ. Math. 25 (1965), 81--130).

ECM survey article discussing the structure of subsets of Abelian groups
which behave `a bit like' cosets (of subgroups).

In this article we survey some of the recent developments in the structure
theory of set addition.

Old paper on the abstract scattering theory (ST) of periodic Hamiltonians.
Updating of the references and correction of some minor non-mathematical
misprints by H.C. Rosu.

A seminorm with square property on a real associative algebra is
submultiplicative

We present a new variant of the Faa di Bruno formula with a simpler summation
order.

An elementary geometric proof for the existence of Witt's 5-(12,6,1) design
is given.

We describe all adjacency preserving bijections of certain products of
Grassmann spaces.

We prove that the Monster does not contain any subgroup isomorphic to
PSL_2(27).

We settle the problem of finding an entire function with three singular
values whose Nevanlinna characteristic dominates an arbitrarily prescribed
function.

Reliable and validated assessments of introductory physics have been
instrumental in driving curricular and pedagogical reforms that lead to
improved student learning. As part of an effort to systematically improve our
sophomore-level Classical Mechanics and Math Methods course (CM 1) at CU
Boulder, we are developing a tool to assess student learning of CM 1 concepts
in the upper-division. The Colorado Classical Mechanics/Math Methods Instrument
(CCMI) builds on faculty-consensus learning goals and systematic observations
of student difficulties. The result is a 9-question open-ended post-test that
probes student learning in the first half of a two-semester classical mechanics
/ math methods sequence. In this paper, we describe the design and development
of this instrument, its validation, and measurements made in classes at CU
Boulder.

We suggest an algorithm computing, in some cases, an explicit generating set
for the N\'eron--Severi lattice of a Delsarte surface.

We obtain new inequalities with alternating signs of H\"{o}lder and Minkowski
type.

Recent results by Kr\"ahmer [Israel J. Math. 189 (2012), 237-266,
arXiv:0806.0267] on smoothness of Hopf-Galois extensions and by Liu
[arXiv:1304.7117] on smoothness of generalized Weyl algebras are used to prove
that the coordinate algebras of the noncommutative pillow orbifold [Internat.
J. Math. 2 (1991), 139-166], quantum teardrops ${\mathcal O}({\mathbb
W}{\mathbb P}_q(1,l))$ [Comm. Math. Phys. 316 (2012), 151-170,
arXiv:1107.1417], quantum lens spaces ${\mathcal O}(L_q(l;1,l))$ [Pacific J.
Math. 211 (2003), 249-263], the quantum Seifert manifold ${\mathcal
O}(\Sigma_q^3)$ [J. Geom. Phys. 62 (2012), 1097-1107, arXiv:1105.5897], quantum
real weighted projective planes ${\mathcal O}({\mathbb R}{\mathbb
P}_q^2(l;\pm))$ [PoS Proc. Sci. (2012), PoS(CORFU2011), 055, 10 pages,
arXiv:1203.6801] and quantum Seifert lens spaces ${\mathcal
O}(\Sigma_q^3(l;-))$ [Axioms 1 (2012), 201-225, arXiv:1207.2313] are
homologically smooth in the sense that as their own bimodules they admit
finitely generated projective resolutions of finite length.

We give the rate of convergence of some optimal lower Riemann-Stieltjes sums
toward the integral.

We prove that every proper Segal algebra of a SIN group is not approximately
amenable.

We prove a uniqueness theorem for an entire function, which shares certain
values with its higher order derivatives.

We improve a result in [L. Chierchia and G. Pinzari, Invent. Math. 2011] by
proving the existence of a positive measure set of $(3n-2)$--dimensional
quasi--periodic motions in the spacial, planetary $(1+n)$--body problem away
from co--planar, circular motions. We also prove that such quasi--periodic
motions reach with continuity corresponding $(2n-1)$--dimensional ones of the
planar problem, once the mutual inclinations go to zero (this is related to a
speculation in [V. I. Arnold. Russ. Math. Surv. 1963]).
  The main tool is a full reduction of the SO(3)--symmetry, which, in
particular, retains symmetry by reflections and highlights a quasi--integrable
structure, with a small remainder, independently of eccentricities and
inclinations.

We introduce and study $\alpha$-embedded sets and apply them to generalize
the Kuratowski Extension Theorem.

We provide a comprehensive classification of constraints and degrees of
freedom for variational discrete systems governed by quadratic actions. This
classification is based on the different types of null vectors of the
Lagrangian two-form and employs the canonical formalism developed in
arXiv:1303.4294 [math-ph] (J. Math. Phys. 54, 093505 (2013)) and
arXiv:1401.6062 [gr-qc] (J. Math. Phys. 55, 083508 (2014)). The analysis is
carried out in both the classical and quantum theory and applies to systems
with both temporally varying or constant discretization. In particular, it is
shown explicitly how changes in the discretization, e.g. resulting from
canonical coarse graining or refining operations or an evolving background
geometry, change the dynamical content of the system. It is demonstrated how,
on a temporally varying discretization, constraints, Dirac observables,
symmetries, reduced phase spaces and physical Hilbert spaces become spacetime
region dependent. These results are relevant for free field theory on an
evolving lattice and linearized discrete gravity models.

This paper summarizes three talks given by the author during a PASI
conference in Olinda, Brasil

We describe the limit zero distributions of sequences of polynomials with
positive coefficients.

We show that there exists a Banach space $E$ with the following properties:
the Banach algebra $\mathscr{B}(E)$ of bounded, linear operators on $E$ has a
singular extension which splits algebraically, but it does not split strongly,
and the homological bidimension of $\mathscr{B}(E)$ is at least two. The first
of these conclusions solves a natural problem left open by Bade, Dales, and
Lykova (Mem. Amer. Math. Soc. 1999), while the second answers a question of
Helemskii. The Banach space $E$ that we use was originally introduced by Read
(J. London Math. Soc. 1989).

We determine which 3-manifolds admit a unitary representation such that the
corresponding twisted chain complex is acyclic.

We show that the Kac-Moody 2-categories defined by Rouquier and by Khovanov
and Lauda are the same.

In this note we give a characterization of finite groups of order $pq^3$
($p$, $q$ primes) that fail to satisfy the Converse of Lagrange's Theorem.

In this note we study the finite groups whose subgroup lattices are
dismantlable.

This is a write up on some sections of convex geometry, functional analysis,
optimization, and nonstandard models that attract the author.

Let G be a simple algebraic group over an algebraically closed field k. We
classify the spherical conjugacy classes of G.

This note contains a newly streamlined version of the original proof that
Outer space is contractible.

In this article we derive a simple twisted relative trace formula.

Ergodicity for local and nonlocal stochastic singular $p$-Laplace equations
is proven, without restriction on the spatial dimension and for all
$p\in[1,2)$. This generalizes previous results from [Gess, T\"{o}lle; J. Math.
Pures Appl., 2014], [Liu, T\"{o}lle; Electron. Commun. Probab., 2011], [Liu; J.
Evol. Equations, 2009]. In particular, the results include the multivalued case
of the stochastic (nonlocal) total variation flow, which solves an open problem
raised in [Barbu, Da Prato, R\"{o}ckner; SIAM J. Math. Anal., 2009]. Moreover,
under appropriate rescaling, the convergence of the unique invariant measure
for the nonlocal stochastic $p$-Laplace equation to the unique invariant
measure of the local stochastic $p$-Laplace equation is proven.

We introduce perfect cones over topological spaces and study their connection
with absolute $B_1$-retracts

We study singular Fano threefolds of type $V_{22}$.

Recently, consistency of the infinite square well solution of the space
fractional Schr\"odinger equation has been the subject of some controversy. In
[J. Math. Phys. 54, 014101 (2013)], Hawkins and Schwarz objected to the way
certain integrals are evaluated to show the consistency of the infinite square
well solutions of the space fractional Schr\"odinger equation [J. Math. Phys.
53, 042105 (2012); J. Math. Phys. 53, 084101 (2012)]. Here, we show for general
n that as far as the integral representation of the solution in the momentum
space is concerned, there is no inconsistency. To pinpoint the source of a
possible inconsistency, we also scrutinize the different representations of the
Riesz derivative that plays a central role in this controversy and show that
they all have the same Fourier transform, when evaluated with consistent
assumptions. PACS numbers: 03.65.Ca, 02.50.Ey, 02.30.Gp, 03.65.Db

We analyze the accuracy and the origin of a fourth root approximation that
appeared in the 1886 Mathematical Tripos.

It is shown that a lower bound of the Kobayashi metric of convex domains in
C^n does not hold for non-convex domains.

We prove the stability under integration and under Fourier transform of a
concrete class of functions containing all globally subanalytic functions and
their complex exponentials. This paper extends the investigation started in
[J.-M. Lion, J.-P. Rolin: "Volumes, feuilles de Rolle de feuilletages
analytiques et th\'eor\`eme de Wilkie" Ann. Fac. Sci. Toulouse Math. (6) 7
(1998), no. 1, 93-112] and [R. Cluckers, D. J. Miller: "Stability under
integration of sums of products of real globally subanalytic functions and
their logarithms" Duke Math. J. 156 (2011), no. 2, 311-348] to an enriched
framework including oscillatory functions. It provides a new example of
fruitful interaction between analysis and singularity theory.

A natural analogue of the Krein--Milman theorem is shown to fail for CAT(0)
spaces.

A conjecture of Woods from 1972 is disproved.

We prove that ZF+DC+"There are no mad families" is equiconsistent with ZFC.

We discuss Krull--Schmidt partners for DG categories and produce bunches of
them for smooth projective varieties.

Reliable and validated assessments of introductory physics have been
instrumental in driving curricular and pedagogical reforms that lead to
improved student learning. As part of an effort to systematically improve our
sophomore-level Classical Mechanics and Math Methods course (CM 1) at CU
Boulder, we have developed a tool to assess student learning of CM 1 concepts
in the upper-division. The Colorado Classical Mechanics/Math Methods Instrument
(CCMI) builds on faculty consensus learning goals and systematic observations
of student difficulties. The result is a 9-question open-ended post-test that
probes student learning in the first half of a two-semester classical mechanics
/ math methods sequence. In this paper, we describe the design and development
of this instrument, its validation, and measurements made in classes at CU
Boulder and elsewhere.

A viewpoint-article comment on asymptotic iteration method.

Texts present coherent stories that have a particular theme or overall
setting, for example science fiction or western. In this paper, we present a
text generation method called {\it rewriting} that edits existing
human-authored narratives to change their theme without changing the underlying
story. We apply the approach to math word problems, where it might help
students stay more engaged by quickly transforming all of their homework
assignments to the theme of their favorite movie without changing the math
concepts that are being taught. Our rewriting method uses a two-stage decoding
process, which proposes new words from the target theme and scores the
resulting stories according to a number of factors defining aspects of
syntactic, semantic, and thematic coherence. Experiments demonstrate that the
final stories typically represent the new theme well while still testing the
original math concepts, outperforming a number of baselines. We also release a
new dataset of human-authored rewrites of math word problems in several themes.

We obtain upper bounds on the number of singular points of factorial terminal
Fano threefolds.

We show that every topological grading of a C*-algebra by a discrete abelian
group is implemented by an action of the compact dual group.

In the sequel, we question the validity of multiple choice questionnaires for
undergraduate level math courses. Our study is based on courses given in major
French universities, to numerous audiences.

We prove a priori interior C2 estimate for \sigma_2 = f in R3, which
generalizes Warren-Yuan's result.

We present an effective formula for the Sibony function for all Reinhardt
domains.

The article describes the advisable ways of the cloud-based systems use to
support students collaboration in the process of math disciplines learning. The
SageMathCloud-based component that aggregates electronic resources for several
math disciplines training is introduced. The learning technique of the
SageMathCloud use in the process of educational staff training is proposed. The
expediency of this technique implementation for more active take up of
innovative approaches, forms and methods of math training with the use of the
cloud-based tools is substantiated. The experimental results of the
SageMathCloud learning component introduction research along with the methods
of its use that were elaborated in the course of the study are presented. The
use of the evidence-based technique as improving the educational environment of
the univer-sity, empowering access to electronic learning resources in the
course of math training and engaging with this the educational community and
also rising their ICT competence is grounded.

We study boundary properties of plurisubharmonic functions near real
submanifolds of almost complex manifolds.

Choquet theorems (1954) on integral representation for capacities are
fundamental to probability theory. They inspired a growing body of research
into different approaches and generalizations of Choquet's results by many
other researchers. Notably Math\'{e}ron's work (1975) on distributions over the
space of closed subsets has led to further advancements in the theory of random
sets. This paper was inspired by the work of Norberg (1989) who generalized
Choquet's results to distributions over domains. While Choquet's original
theorems were obtained for locally compact Hausdorff (LCH) spaces, both
Math\'{e}ron's and Norberg's depend on the assumption of separability in their
application of the Carath\'{e}odory's method. Our Radon measure approach
differs from the work of Math\'{e}ron and Norberg, in that it does not require
separability. This investigation naturally leads to the introduction of finite
and locally finite valuations, which allows us to characterize finite and
locally finite random sets in terms of capacities on the class of compact
subsets. Finally, the treatment of L\'{e}vy exponent by Math\'{e}ron and
Norberg is revisited, and the notion of exponential valuation is proposed for
the representation of general Poisson processes.

Sequence-to-sequence (SEQ2SEQ) models have been successfully applied to
automatic math word problem solving. Despite its simplicity, a drawback still
remains: a math word problem can be correctly solved by more than one
equations. This non-deterministic transduction harms the performance of maximum
likelihood estimation. In this paper, by considering the uniqueness of
expression tree, we propose an equation normalization method to normalize the
duplicated equations. Moreover, we analyze the performance of three popular
SEQ2SEQ models on the math word problem solving. We find that each model has
its own specialty in solving problems, consequently an ensemble model is then
proposed to combine their advantages. Experiments on dataset Math23K show that
the ensemble model with equation normalization significantly outperforms the
previous state-of-the-art methods.

We compute cones of effective cycles on some blowups of projective spaces in
general sets of lines.

Explaining Cybersecurity with Films and the Arts

We show that two-dimensional conformally related Douglas metrics are Randers

We establish the converse of Weyl's eigenvalue inequality for additive
Hermitian perturbations of a Hermitian matrix.

We prove Bloch's conjecture for numerical Campedelli surfaces with
fundamental group of order $9$.

We give a probabilistic proof of the orbit-counting lemma.

In this note we describe the embeddings of the Heisenberg group into the
Cremona group.

We compute the cohomological Brauer groups of twists of weighted projective
spaces and weighted projective stacks.

Making meaning with math in physics requires blending physical conceptual
knowledge with mathematical symbology. Students in introductory physics classes
often struggle with this, but it is an essential component of learning how to
think with math. Teaching dimensional analysis (DA). figuring out what
measurements were combined to create a symbolic quantity, is a valuable first
step in helping them learn to appreciate this difference. In this paper I
discuss some of the issues associated with learning dimensional analysis and
show some ways we can modify our instruction to help. This paper is one of a
series on how to help students develop the scientific thinking skills required
for learning to use math in science.

Recent years have seen significant advancement in text generation tasks with
the help of neural language models. However, there exists a challenging task:
generating math problem text based on mathematical equations, which has made
little progress so far. In this paper, we present a novel equation-to-problem
text generation model. In our model, 1) we propose a flexible scheme to
effectively encode math equations, we then enhance the equation encoder by a
Varitional Autoen-coder (VAE) 2) given a math equation, we perform topic
selection, followed by which a dynamic topic memory mechanism is introduced to
restrict the topic distribution of the generator 3) to avoid commonsense
violation in traditional generation model, we pretrain word embedding with
background knowledge graph (KG), and we link decoded words to related words in
KG, targeted at injecting background knowledge into our model. We evaluate our
model through both automatic metrices and human evaluation, experiments
demonstrate our model outperforms baseline and previous models in both accuracy
and richness of generated problem text.

We prove that a harmonic quasi-isometric map between pinched Hadamard
surfaces is a quasi-conformal diffeomorphism.

We prove that the value group of the field of transseries is isomorphic to
the additive reduct of the field.

We prove that every transversal distribution is automatically continuous.

This paper proposes a set of techniques to develop correctly rounded math
libraries for 32-bit float and posit types. It enhances our RLibm approach that
frames the problem of generating correctly rounded libraries as a linear
programming problem in the context of 16-bit types to scale to 32-bit types.
Specifically, this paper proposes new algorithms to (1) generate polynomials
that produce correctly rounded outputs for all inputs using counterexample
guided polynomial generation, (2) generate efficient piecewise polynomials with
bit-pattern based domain splitting, and (3) deduce the amount of freedom
available to produce correct results when range reduction involves multiple
elementary functions. The resultant math library for the 32-bit float type is
faster than state-of-the-art math libraries while producing the correct output
for all inputs. We have also developed a set of correctly rounded elementary
functions for 32-bit posits.

We study the problem of generating arithmetic math word problems (MWPs) given
a math equation that specifies the mathematical computation and a context that
specifies the problem scenario. Existing approaches are prone to generating
MWPs that are either mathematically invalid or have unsatisfactory language
quality. They also either ignore the context or require manual specification of
a problem template, which compromises the diversity of the generated MWPs. In
this paper, we develop a novel MWP generation approach that leverages i)
pre-trained language models and a context keyword selection model to improve
the language quality of the generated MWPs and ii) an equation consistency
constraint for math equations to improve the mathematical validity of the
generated MWPs. Extensive quantitative and qualitative experiments on three
real-world MWP datasets demonstrate the superior performance of our approach
compared to various baselines.

Andrews and Simay showed that parity palindrome compositions have a
surprisingly simple formula. We give a recursive proof.

Math Word Problems (MWP) is an important task that requires the ability of
understanding and reasoning over mathematical text. Existing approaches mostly
formalize it as a generation task by adopting Seq2Seq or Seq2Tree models to
encode an input math problem in natural language as a global representation and
generate the output mathematical expression. Such approaches only learn shallow
heuristics and fail to capture fine-grained variations in inputs. In this
paper, we propose to model a math word problem in a fine-to-coarse manner to
capture both the local fine-grained information and the global logical
structure of it. Instead of generating a complete equation sequence or
expression tree from the global features, we iteratively combine low-level
operands to predict a higher-level operator, abstracting the problem and
reasoning about the solving operators from bottom to up. Our model is naturally
more sensitive to local variations and can better generalize to unseen problem
types. Extensive evaluations on Math23k and SVAMP datasets demonstrate the
accuracy and robustness of our method.

The claim in the title is proved.

We introduce CLEVR-Math, a multi-modal math word problems dataset consisting
of simple math word problems involving addition/subtraction, represented partly
by a textual description and partly by an image illustrating the scenario. The
text describes actions performed on the scene that is depicted in the image.
Since the question posed may not be about the scene in the image, but about the
state of the scene before or after the actions are applied, the solver envision
or imagine the state changes due to these actions. Solving these word problems
requires a combination of language, visual and mathematical reasoning. We apply
state-of-the-art neural and neuro-symbolic models for visual question answering
on CLEVR-Math and empirically evaluate their performances. Our results show how
neither method generalise to chains of operations. We discuss the limitations
of the two in addressing the task of multi-modal word problem solving.

In [Math. Proc. Cambridge Philos. Soc. 64 (1968), 251-264], P.M. Cohn
famously claimed that a commutative domain is atomic if and only if it
satisfies the ascending chain condition on principal ideals (ACCP). Some years
later, a counterexample was provided by A. Grams in [Math. Proc. Cambridge
Philos. Soc. 75 (1974), 321-329]: Every commutative domain with the ACCP is
atomic, but not vice versa. This has led to the question of finding a sensible
(ideal-theoretic) characterization of atomicity.
  The question (explicitly stated on p. 3 of A. Geroldinger and F.
Halter-Koch's 2006 monograph on factorization) is still open. We settle it
using the language of monoids and preorders.

Cyclic codes have many applications in consumer electronics, communication
and data storage systems due to their efficient encoding and decoding
algorithms. An efficient approach to constructing cyclic codes is the sequence
approach. In their articles [Discrete Math. 321, 2014] and [SIAM J. Discrete
Math. 27(4), 2013], Ding and Zhou constructed several classes of cyclic codes
from almost perfect nonlinear (APN) functions and planar functions over finite
fields and presented some open problems on cyclic codes from highly nonlinear
functions. This article focuses on these exciting works by investigating new
insights in this research direction. Specifically, its objective is twofold.
The first is to provide a complement with some former results and present
correct proofs and statements on some known ones on the cyclic codes from the
APN functions. The second is studying the cyclic codes from some known
functions processing low differential uniformity. Along with this article, we
shall provide answers to some open problems presented in the literature. The
first one concerns Open Problem 1, proposed by Ding and Zhou in Discrete Math.
321, 2014. The two others are Open Problems 5.16 and 5.25, raised by Ding in
[SIAM J. Discrete Math. 27(4), 2013].

The advances in language-based Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies
applied to build educational applications can present AI for social-good
opportunities with a broader positive impact. Across many disciplines,
enhancing the quality of mathematics education is crucial in building critical
thinking and problem-solving skills at younger ages. Conversational AI systems
have started maturing to a point where they could play a significant role in
helping students learn fundamental math concepts. This work presents a
task-oriented Spoken Dialogue System (SDS) built to support play-based learning
of basic math concepts for early childhood education. The system has been
evaluated via real-world deployments at school while the students are
practicing early math concepts with multimodal interactions. We discuss our
efforts to improve the SDS pipeline built for math learning, for which we
explore utilizing MathBERT representations for potential enhancement to the
Natural Language Understanding (NLU) module. We perform an end-to-end
evaluation using real-world deployment outputs from the Automatic Speech
Recognition (ASR), Intent Recognition, and Dialogue Manager (DM) components to
understand how error propagation affects the overall performance in real-world
scenarios.

How was this proof overlooked for 181 years? We give a simple proof of
Descartes's circle theorem using Cayley-Menger determinants.

We compute K-semistable domains for various examples of log pairs.

In this paper, we continue investigating the second variation of Perelman's
$\nu$-entropy for compact shrinking Ricci solitons. In particular, we improve
some of our previous work in "H.-D. Cao and M. Zhu, Math. Ann. 353 (2012), No.
3, 747-763", as well as the more recent work in "M. Mehrmohamadi and A. Razavi,
arXiv:2104.08343", and obtain a necessary and sufficient condition for a
compact shrinking Ricci soliton to be linearly stable. Our work also extends
similar results of Hamilton, Ilmanen and the first author in
"arXiv:math.DG/0404165" (see also "H.-D. Cao and C. He, J. Reine Angew. Math.
2015 (2015), no. 709, 229-246.") for positive Einstein manifolds to the compact
shrinking Ricci soliton case.

Large language models have emerged abilities including chain-of-thought to
answer math word problems step by step. Solving math word problems not only
requires abilities to disassemble problems via chain-of-thought but also needs
to calculate arithmetic expressions correctly for each step. To the best of our
knowledge, there is no work to focus on evaluating the arithmetic ability of
large language models. In this work, we propose an arithmetic dataset MATH 401
to test the latest large language models including GPT-4, ChatGPT, InstrctGPT,
Galactica, and LLaMA with various arithmetic expressions and provide a detailed
analysis of the ability of large language models. MATH 401 and evaluation codes
are released at \url{https://github.com/GanjinZero/math401-llm}.

Cybersecurity attacks on embedded devices for industrial control systems and
cyber-physical systems may cause catastrophic physical damage as well as
economic loss. This could be achieved by infecting device binaries with malware
that modifies the physical characteristics of the system operation. Mitigating
such attacks benefits from reverse engineering tools that recover sufficient
semantic knowledge in terms of mathematical equations of the implemented
algorithm. Conventional reverse engineering tools can decompile binaries to
low-level code, but offer little semantic insight. This paper proposes the
REMaQE automated framework for reverse engineering of math equations from
binary executables. Improving over state-of-the-art, REMaQE handles equation
parameters accessed via registers, the stack, global memory, or pointers, and
can reverse engineer object-oriented implementations such as C++ classes. Using
REMaQE, we discovered a bug in the Linux kernel thermal monitoring tool "tmon".
To evaluate REMaQE, we generate a dataset of 25,096 binaries with math
equations implemented in C and Simulink. REMaQE successfully recovers a
semantically matching equation for all 25,096 binaries. REMaQE executes in 0.48
seconds on average and in up to 2 seconds for complex equations. Real-time
execution enables integration in an interactive math-oriented reverse
engineering workflow.

In a recent series of papers new exact analytical solutions of the Einstein
equations representing interior spacetimes sourced by stationary rigidly
rotating cylinders of different kinds of fluids have been displayed, [Phys.
Rev. D {\bf 104}, 064040 (2021); J. Math. Phys. {\bf 64}, 022501 (2023); J.
Math. Phys. {\bf 64}, 032501 (2023); J. Math. Phys. {\bf 64}, 042501 (2023);
and J. Math. Phys. {\bf 64}, 052502 (2023)]. This work is currently being
extended to the cases of differentially rotating irrotational fluids. The
results are presented in a new series of papers considering in turn the same
three anisotropic pressure cases, as well as a perfect fluid source. Here, the
perfect fluid case is considered, and different classes are identified as
directly issuing from the field equations. Among them, an explicit analytical
set of solutions is selected as displaying perfect fluid spacetimes. Its
mathematical and physical properties are analyzed. Its matching to an exterior
Lewis-Weyl vacuum and the conditions for avoiding an angular deficit are
discussed.

In this paper, we present a novel approach for distilling math word problem
solving capabilities from large language models (LLMs) into smaller, more
efficient student models. Our approach is designed to consider the student
model's weaknesses and foster a tailored learning experience by generating
targeted exercises aligned with educational science principles, such as
knowledge tracing and personalized learning. Concretely, we let GPT-3 be a math
tutor and run two steps iteratively: 1) assessing the student model's current
learning status on a GPT-generated exercise book, and 2) improving the student
model by training it with tailored exercise samples generated by GPT-3.
Experimental results reveal that our approach outperforms LLMs (e.g., GPT-3 and
PaLM) in accuracy across three distinct benchmarks while employing
significantly fewer parameters. Furthermore, we provide a comprehensive
analysis of the various components within our methodology to substantiate their
efficacy.

Solutions to math word problems (MWPs) with step-by-step explanations are
valuable, especially in education, to help students better comprehend
problem-solving strategies. Most existing approaches only focus on obtaining
the final correct answer. A few recent approaches leverage intermediate
solution steps to improve final answer correctness but often cannot generate
coherent steps with a clear solution strategy. Contrary to existing work, we
focus on improving the correctness and coherence of the intermediate solutions
steps. We propose a step-by-step planning approach for intermediate solution
generation, which strategically plans the generation of the next solution step
based on the MWP and the previous solution steps. Our approach first plans the
next step by predicting the necessary math operation needed to proceed, given
history steps, then generates the next step, token-by-token, by prompting a
language model with the predicted math operation. Experiments on the GSM8K
dataset demonstrate that our approach improves the accuracy and
interpretability of the solution on both automatic metrics and human
evaluation.

Employing Large Language Models (LLMs) to address mathematical problems is an
intriguing research endeavor, considering the abundance of math problems
expressed in natural language across numerous science and engineering fields.
While several prior works have investigated solving elementary mathematics
using LLMs, this work explores the frontier of using GPT-4 for solving more
complex and challenging math problems. We evaluate various ways of using GPT-4.
Some of them are adapted from existing work, and one is MathChat, a
conversational problem-solving framework newly proposed in this work. We
perform the evaluation on difficult high school competition problems from the
MATH dataset, which shows the advantage of the proposed conversational
approach.

Let $D$ be a connected bounded domain in $\R^2$, $S$ be its boundary which is
closed, connected and smooth. Let $\Phi(z)=\frac 1 {2\pi
i}\int_S\frac{f(s)ds}{s-z}$, $f\in L^1(S)$, $z=x+iy$. Boundary values of
$\Phi(z)$ on $S$ are studied. The function $\Phi(t)$, $t\in S$, is defined in a
new way. Necessary and sufficient conditions are given for $f\in L^1(S)$ to be
boundary value of an analytic in $D$ function. The Sokhotsky-Plemelj formulas
are derived for $f\in L^1(S)$.

We present the Chinese Elementary School Math Word Problems (CMATH) dataset,
comprising 1.7k elementary school-level math word problems with detailed
annotations, source from actual Chinese workbooks and exams. This dataset aims
to provide a benchmark tool for assessing the following question: to what grade
level of elementary school math do the abilities of popular large language
models (LLMs) correspond? We evaluate a variety of popular LLMs, including both
commercial and open-source options, and discover that only GPT-4 achieves
success (accuracy $\geq$ 60\%) across all six elementary school grades, while
other models falter at different grade levels. Furthermore, we assess the
robustness of several top-performing LLMs by augmenting the original problems
in the CMATH dataset with distracting information. Our findings reveal that
GPT-4 is able to maintains robustness, while other model fail. We anticipate
that our study will expose limitations in LLMs' arithmetic and reasoning
capabilities, and promote their ongoing development and advancement.

Automated math word problem solvers based on neural networks have
successfully managed to obtain 70-80\% accuracy in solving arithmetic word
problems. However, it has been shown that these solvers may rely on superficial
patterns to obtain their equations. In order to determine what information math
word problem solvers use to generate solutions, we remove parts of the input
and measure the model's performance on the perturbed dataset. Our results show
that the model is not sensitive to the removal of many words from the input and
can still manage to find a correct answer when given a nonsense question. This
indicates that automatic solvers do not follow the semantic logic of math word
problems, and may be overfitting to the presence of specific words.

Large language models (LLMs), such as GPT-4, have shown remarkable
performance in natural language processing (NLP) tasks, including challenging
mathematical reasoning. However, most existing open-source models are only
pre-trained on large-scale internet data and without math-related optimization.
In this paper, we present WizardMath, which enhances the mathematical reasoning
abilities of Llama-2, by applying our proposed Reinforcement Learning from
Evol-Instruct Feedback (RLEIF) method to the domain of math. Through extensive
experiments on two mathematical reasoning benchmarks, namely GSM8k and MATH, we
reveal the extraordinary capabilities of our model. WizardMath surpasses all
other open-source LLMs by a substantial margin. Furthermore, our model even
outperforms ChatGPT-3.5, Claude Instant-1, PaLM-2 and Minerva on GSM8k,
simultaneously surpasses Text-davinci-002, PaLM-1 and GPT-3 on MATH. More
details and model weights are public at https://github.com/nlpxucan/WizardLM
and https://huggingface.co/WizardLM.

This paper summarizes the author's insights and experiences of teaching
mathematics to incarcerated students within the U.S. prison system.

We present a simple visual description of the topology of the space of
three-dimensional rotations, requiring just intuition, imagination and no
advanced math.

This paper investigates the performance of Large Language Models (LLMs) and
Tool-augmented LLMs in tackling complex mathematical reasoning tasks. We
introduce IMP-TIP: Improving Math Reasoning with Tool-augmented Interleaf
Prompting, a framework that combines the strengths of both LLMs and
Tool-augmented LLMs. IMP-TIP follows the ``From Good to Great" concept,
collecting multiple potential solutions from both LLMs and their Tool-Augmented
counterparts for the same math problem, and then selecting or re-generating the
most accurate answer after cross-checking these solutions via tool-augmented
interleaf prompting. The framework incorporates two key aspects: self-prompt
and tool-augmented interleaf prompting (TIP). The former allows LLMs to
autonomously refine and improve an initial prompt related to tool usage, while
the latter enables LLMs to derive the final answer by dynamically analyzing the
problem, cross-checking potential solutions, and revising previous reasoning
hints in an interleaved manner. Experimental analysis shows that IMP-TIP
achieves enhanced mathematical capabilities and outperforms traditional LLMs
and tool-augmented LLMs in accuracy and reasoning diversity on math reasoning
tasks. For instance, IMP-TIP can improve Tool-augmented ChatGPT on GSM8K-Hard
from 56.0% to 65.2%.

Geometry problem solving presents a formidable challenge within the NLP
community. Existing approaches often rely on models designed for solving math
word problems, neglecting the unique characteristics of geometry math problems.
Additionally, the current research predominantly focuses on geometry
calculation problems, while overlooking other essential aspects like proving.
In this study, we address these limitations by proposing the Geometry-Aware
Problem Solver (GAPS) model. GAPS is specifically designed to generate solution
programs for geometry math problems of various types with the help of its
unique problem-type classifier. To achieve this, GAPS treats the solution
program as a composition of operators and operands, segregating their
generation processes. Furthermore, we introduce the geometry elements
enhancement method, which enhances the ability of GAPS to recognize geometry
elements accurately. By leveraging these improvements, GAPS showcases
remarkable performance in resolving geometry math problems. Our experiments
conducted on the UniGeo dataset demonstrate the superiority of GAPS over the
state-of-the-art model, Geoformer. Specifically, GAPS achieves an accuracy
improvement of more than 5.3% for calculation tasks and an impressive 41.1% for
proving tasks. Notably, GAPS achieves an impressive accuracy of 97.5% on
proving problems, representing a significant advancement in solving geometry
proving tasks.

We discuss several classical and recent proofs of the isoperimetric
inequality and the Sobolev inequality.

Large language models (LLMs) have significantly transformed the educational
landscape. As current plagiarism detection tools struggle to keep pace with
LLMs' rapid advancements, the educational community faces the challenge of
assessing students' true problem-solving abilities in the presence of LLMs. In
this work, we explore a new paradigm for ensuring fair evaluation -- generating
adversarial examples which preserve the structure and difficulty of the
original questions aimed for assessment, but are unsolvable by LLMs. Focusing
on the domain of math word problems, we leverage abstract syntax trees to
structurally generate adversarial examples that cause LLMs to produce incorrect
answers by simply editing the numeric values in the problems. We conduct
experiments on various open- and closed-source LLMs, quantitatively and
qualitatively demonstrating that our method significantly degrades their math
problem-solving ability. We identify shared vulnerabilities among LLMs and
propose a cost-effective approach to attack high-cost models. Additionally, we
conduct automatic analysis on math problems and investigate the cause of
failure, offering a nuanced view into model's limitation.

Large language models (LLMs) have achieved impressive performance across
various mathematical reasoning benchmarks. However, there are increasing
debates regarding whether these models truly understand and apply mathematical
knowledge or merely rely on shortcuts for mathematical reasoning. One essential
and frequently occurring evidence is that when the math questions are slightly
changed, LLMs can behave incorrectly. This motivates us to evaluate the
robustness of LLMs' math reasoning capability by testing a wide range of
question variations. We introduce the adversarial grade school math
(\datasetname) dataset, an extension of GSM8K augmented with various
mathematical perturbations. Our experiments on 25 LLMs and 4 prompting
techniques show that while LLMs exhibit different levels of math reasoning
abilities, their performances are far from robust. In particular, even for
problems that have been solved in GSM8K, LLMs can make mistakes when new
statements are added or the question targets are altered. We also explore
whether more robust performance can be achieved by composing existing prompting
methods, in which we try an iterative method that generates and verifies each
intermediate thought based on its reasoning goal and calculation result. Code
and data are available at \url{https://github.com/qtli/GSM-Plus}.

We explicitly solve a variational problem related to upper bounds on the
optimal constants in the Cwikel--Lieb--Rozenblum (CLR) and Lieb--Thirring (LT)
inequalities, which has recently been derived in [Invent. Math. 231 (2023),
no.1, 111-167. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00222-022-01144-7 ] and [J. Eur. Math.
Soc. (JEMS) 23 (2021), no.8, 2583-2600. https://doi.org/10.4171/jems/1062 ]. We
achieve this through a variational characterization of the $L^1$ norm of the
Fourier transform of a function and duality, from which we obtain a
reformulation in terms of a variant of the Hadamard three lines lemma. By
studying Hardy-like spaces of holomorphic functions in a strip in the complex
plane, we are able to provide an analytic formula for the minimizers, and use
it to get the best possible upper bounds for the optimal constants in the CLR
and LT inequalities achievable by the method of [Invent. Math. 231 (2023),
no.1, 111-167. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00222-022-01144-7 ] and [J. Eur. Math.
Soc. (JEMS) 23 (2021), no.8, 2583-2600. https://doi.org/10.4171/jems/1062 ].

Math Word Problem (MWP) solving presents a challenging task in Natural
Language Processing (NLP). This study aims to provide MWP solvers with a more
diverse training set, ultimately improving their ability to solve various math
problems. We propose several methods for data augmentation by modifying the
problem texts and equations, such as synonym replacement, rule-based: question
replacement, and rule based: reversing question methodologies over two English
MWP datasets. This study extends by introducing a new in-context learning
augmentation method, employing the Llama-7b language model. This approach
involves instruction-based prompting for rephrasing the math problem texts.
Performance evaluations are conducted on 9 baseline models, revealing that
augmentation methods outperform baseline models. Moreover, concatenating
examples generated by various augmentation methods further improves
performance.

Large language models (LLMs) have been explored in a variety of reasoning
tasks including solving of mathematical problems. Each math dataset typically
includes its own specially designed evaluation script, which, while suitable
for its intended use, lacks generalizability across different datasets.
Consequently, updates and adaptations to these evaluation tools tend to occur
without being systematically reported, leading to inconsistencies and obstacles
to fair comparison across studies. To bridge this gap, we introduce a
comprehensive mathematical evaluation toolkit that not only utilizes a python
computer algebra system (CAS) for its numerical accuracy, but also integrates
an optional LLM, known for its considerable natural language processing
capabilities. To validate the effectiveness of our toolkit, we manually
annotated two distinct datasets. Our experiments demonstrate that the toolkit
yields more robust evaluation results compared to prior works, even without an
LLM. Furthermore, when an LLM is incorporated, there is a notable enhancement.
The code for our method will be made available at
\url{https://github.com/MARIO-Math-Reasoning/math_evaluation}.

Multiple-choice questions (MCQs) are commonly used across all levels of math
education since they can be deployed and graded at a large scale. A critical
component of MCQs is the distractors, i.e., incorrect answers crafted to
reflect student errors or misconceptions. Automatically generating them in math
MCQs, e.g., with large language models, has been challenging. In this work, we
propose a novel method to enhance the quality of generated distractors through
overgenerate-and-rank, training a ranking model to predict how likely
distractors are to be selected by real students. Experimental results on a
real-world dataset and human evaluation with math teachers show that our
ranking model increases alignment with human-authored distractors, although
human-authored ones are still preferred over generated ones.

Complex machine learning (ML) inference algorithms like recurrent neural
networks (RNNs) use standard functions from math libraries like exponentiation,
sigmoid, tanh, and reciprocal of square root. Although prior work on secure
2-party inference provides specialized protocols for convolutional neural
networks (CNNs), existing secure implementations of these math operators rely
on generic 2-party computation (2PC) protocols that suffer from high
communication. We provide new specialized 2PC protocols for math functions that
crucially rely on lookup-tables and mixed-bitwidths to address this performance
overhead; our protocols for math functions communicate up to 423x less data
than prior work. Some of the mixed bitwidth operations used by our math
implementations are (zero and signed) extensions, different forms of
truncations, multiplication of operands of mixed-bitwidths, and digit
decomposition (a generalization of bit decomposition to larger digits). For
each of these primitive operations, we construct specialized 2PC protocols that
are more communication efficient than generic 2PC, and can be of independent
interest. Furthermore, our math implementations are numerically precise, which
ensures that the secure implementations preserve model accuracy of cleartext.
We build on top of our novel protocols to build SIRNN, a library for end-to-end
secure 2-party DNN inference, that provides the first secure implementations of
an RNN operating on time series sensor data, an RNN operating on speech data,
and a state-of-the-art ML architecture that combines CNNs and RNNs for
identifying all heads present in images. Our evaluation shows that SIRNN
achieves up to three orders of magnitude of performance improvement when
compared to inference of these models using an existing state-of-the-art 2PC
framework.

In this article a self-contained exposition of proving perturbative
renormalizability of a quantum field theory based on an adaption of Wilson's
differential renormalization group equation to perturbation theory is given.
The topics treated include the spontaneously broken SU(2) Yang-Mills theory.
Although mainly a coherent but selective review, the article contains also some
simplifications and extensions with respect to the literature. In the original
version of this review the spontaneously broken Yang-Mills theory, dealt with
in Chapter 4, followed Comm. Math. Phys. 209, 477 (2000) . Recently, however,
the authors of this article discovered a serious deficiency in their method to
restore the Slavnov-Taylor identities (intermediately violated by the
regularization), which invalidates their claim. Now in Rev. Math. Phys. 21, 781
(2009) these authors have developed a new approach to accomplish the missing
restoration of the Slavnov-Taylor identities. The present revised review
concerns solely Chapter 4: the original Sections 4.1-4.3 are essentially
unaltered, whereas the former Section 4.4, now obsolete, has been replaced by
the new Sections 4.4-4.6, following the recent Rev. Math. Phys. article.

We systematically study the first three terms in the asymptotic expansions of
the moments of the transmission eigenvalues and proper delay times as the
number of quantum channels n in the leads goes to infinity. The computations
are based on the assumption that the Landauer-B\"utticker scattering matrix for
chaotic ballistic cavities can be modelled by the circular ensembles of Random
Matrix Theory (RMT). The starting points are the finite-n formulae that we
recently discovered (Mezzadri and Simm, J. Math. Phys. 52 (2011), 103511). Our
analysis includes all the symmetry classes beta=1,2,4; in addition, it applies
to the transmission eigenvalues of Andreev billiards, whose symmetry classes
were classified by Zirnbauer (J. Math. Phys. 37 (1996), 4986-5018) and Altland
and Zirnbauer (Phys. Rev. B. 55 (1997), 1142-1161). Where applicable, our
results are in complete agreement with the semiclassical theory of mesoscopic
systems developed by Berkolaiko et al. (J. Phys. A.: Math. Theor. 41 (2008),
365102) and Berkolaiko and Kuipers (J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 43 (2010), 035101
and New J. Phys. 13 (2011), 063020). Our approach also applies to the
Selberg-like integrals. We calculate the first two terms in their asymptotic
expansion explicitly.

In this paper we study a model for phase separation and damage in
thermoviscoelastic materials. The main novelty of the paper consists in the
fact that, in contrast with previous works in the literature (cf., e.g., [C.
Heinemann, C. Kraus: Existence results of weak solutions for Cahn-Hilliard
systems coupled with elasticity and damage. Adv. Math. Sci. Appl. 21 (2011),
321--359] and [C. Heinemann, C. Kraus: Existence results for diffuse interface
models describing phase separation and damage. European J. Appl. Math. 24
(2013), 179--211]), we encompass in the model thermal processes, nonlinearly
coupled with the damage, concentration and displacement evolutions. More in
particular, we prove the existence of "entropic weak solutions", resorting to a
solvability concept first introduced in [E. Feireisl: Mathematical theory of
compressible, viscous, and heat conducting fluids. Comput. Math. Appl. 53
(2007), 461--490] in the framework of Fourier-Navier-Stokes systems and then
recently employed in [E. Feireisl, H. Petzeltov\'a, E. Rocca: Existence of
solutions to a phase transition model with microscopic movements. Math. Methods
Appl. Sci. 32 (2009), 1345--1369], [E. Rocca, R. Rossi: "Entropic" solutions to
a thermodynamically consistent PDE system for phase transitions and damage.
SIAM J. Math. Anal., 47 (2015), 2519--2586] for the study of PDE systems for
phase transition and damage. Our global-in-time existence result is obtained by
passing to the limit in a carefully devised time-discretization scheme.

Automatic math word problem solving has attracted growing attention in recent
years. The evaluation datasets used by previous works have serious limitations
in terms of scale and diversity. In this paper, we release a new large-scale
and template-rich math word problem dataset named Ape210K. It consists of 210K
Chinese elementary school-level math problems, which is 9 times the size of the
largest public dataset Math23K. Each problem contains both the gold answer and
the equations needed to derive the answer. Ape210K is also of greater diversity
with 56K templates, which is 25 times more than Math23K. Our analysis shows
that solving Ape210K requires not only natural language understanding but also
commonsense knowledge. We expect Ape210K to be a benchmark for math word
problem solving systems. Experiments indicate that state-of-the-art models on
the Math23K dataset perform poorly on Ape210K. We propose a copy-augmented and
feature-enriched sequence to sequence (seq2seq) model, which outperforms
existing models by 3.2% on the Math23K dataset and serves as a strong baseline
of the Ape210K dataset. The gap is still significant between human and our
baseline model, calling for further research efforts. We make Ape210K dataset
publicly available at https://github.com/yuantiku/ape210k

Handwritten mathematical expressions (HMEs) contain ambiguities in their
interpretations, even for humans sometimes. Several math symbols are very
similar in the writing style, such as dot and comma or 0, O, and o, which is a
challenge for HME recognition systems to handle without using contextual
information. To address this problem, this paper presents a Transformer-based
Math Language Model (TMLM). Based on the self-attention mechanism, the
high-level representation of an input token in a sequence of tokens is computed
by how it is related to the previous tokens. Thus, TMLM can capture long
dependencies and correlations among symbols and relations in a mathematical
expression (ME). We trained the proposed language model using a corpus of
approximately 70,000 LaTeX sequences provided in CROHME 2016. TMLM achieved the
perplexity of 4.42, which outperformed the previous math language models, i.e.,
the N-gram and recurrent neural network-based language models. In addition, we
combine TMLM into a stochastic context-free grammar-based HME recognition
system using a weighting parameter to re-rank the top-10 best candidates. The
expression rates on the testing sets of CROHME 2016 and CROHME 2019 were
improved by 2.97 and 0.83 percentage points, respectively.

Recent progress in large language models (LLMs) like GPT-4 and PaLM-2 has
brought significant advancements in addressing math reasoning problems. In
particular, OpenAI's latest version of GPT-4, known as GPT-4 Code Interpreter,
shows remarkable performance on challenging math datasets. In this paper, we
explore the effect of code on enhancing LLMs' reasoning capability by
introducing different constraints on the \textit{Code Usage Frequency} of GPT-4
Code Interpreter. We found that its success can be largely attributed to its
powerful skills in generating and executing code, evaluating the output of code
execution, and rectifying its solution when receiving unreasonable outputs.
Based on this insight, we propose a novel and effective prompting method,
explicit \uline{c}ode-based \uline{s}elf-\uline{v}erification~(CSV), to further
boost the mathematical reasoning potential of GPT-4 Code Interpreter. This
method employs a zero-shot prompt on GPT-4 Code Interpreter to encourage it to
use code to self-verify its answers. In instances where the verification state
registers as ``False'', the model shall automatically amend its solution,
analogous to our approach of rectifying errors during a mathematics
examination. Furthermore, we recognize that the states of the verification
result indicate the confidence of a solution, which can improve the
effectiveness of majority voting. With GPT-4 Code Interpreter and CSV, we
achieve an impressive zero-shot accuracy on MATH dataset \textbf{(53.9\% $\to$
84.3\%)}.

For middle-school math students, interactive question-answering (QA) with
tutors is an effective way to learn. The flexibility and emergent capabilities
of generative large language models (LLMs) has led to a surge of interest in
automating portions of the tutoring process - including interactive QA to
support conceptual discussion of mathematical concepts. However, LLM responses
to math questions can be incorrect or mismatched to the educational context -
such as being misaligned with a school's curriculum. One potential solution is
retrieval-augmented generation (RAG), which involves incorporating a vetted
external knowledge source in the LLM prompt to increase response quality. In
this paper, we designed prompts that retrieve and use content from a
high-quality open-source math textbook to generate responses to real student
questions. We evaluate the efficacy of this RAG system for middle-school
algebra and geometry QA by administering a multi-condition survey, finding that
humans prefer responses generated using RAG, but not when responses are too
grounded in the textbook content. We argue that while RAG is able to improve
response quality, designers of math QA systems must consider trade-offs between
generating responses preferred by students and responses closely matched to
specific educational resources.

In a recent series of papers new exact analytical interior spacetimes sourced
by stationary rigidly rotating cylinders of fluids have been displayed. A fluid
with an axially directed pressure has been first considered, C\'el\'erier,
Phys. Rev. D 104, 064040 (2021), J. Math. Phys. 64, 032501 (2023), then a
perfect fluid, J. Math. Phys. 64, 022501 (2023), followed by a fluid with an
azimuthally directed pressure, J. Math. Phys. 64, 042501 (2023), then, by a
fluid where the pressure is radially oriented, J. Math. Phys. 64, 052502
(2023). The perfect fluid configuration has subsequently be extended to the
case of differential rotation, J. Math. Phys. 64, 092501 (2023). In the present
paper, three different cases of anisotropic pressure analogous to those studied
for the rigidly rotating motion are considered in turn for differentially
rotating fluids. General methods for generating mathematical solutions to the
field equations and physically well-behaved examples are displayed for the
axial and azimuthal pressure cases. As regards radial pressure fluids, four
classes of solutions naturally emerge from the corresponding Einstein's
equations, among which one class has been fully integrated and has been shown
to exhibit physically proper solutions.

Research suggests that tutors should adopt a strategic approach when
addressing math errors made by low-efficacy students. Rather than drawing
direct attention to the error, tutors should guide the students to identify and
correct their mistakes on their own. While tutor lessons have introduced this
pedagogical skill, human evaluation of tutors applying this strategy is arduous
and time-consuming. Large language models (LLMs) show promise in providing
real-time assessment to tutors during their actual tutoring sessions, yet
little is known regarding their accuracy in this context. In this study, we
investigate the capacity of generative AI to evaluate real-life tutors'
performance in responding to students making math errors. By analyzing 50
real-life tutoring dialogues, we find both GPT-3.5-Turbo and GPT-4 demonstrate
proficiency in assessing the criteria related to reacting to students making
errors. However, both models exhibit limitations in recognizing instances where
the student made an error. Notably, GPT-4 tends to overidentify instances of
students making errors, often attributing student uncertainty or inferring
potential errors where human evaluators did not. Future work will focus on
enhancing generalizability by assessing a larger dataset of dialogues and
evaluating learning transfer. Specifically, we will analyze the performance of
tutors in real-life scenarios when responding to students' math errors before
and after lesson completion on this crucial tutoring skill.

Tool-augmented Large Language Models (TALMs) are known to enhance the
skillset of large language models (LLMs), thereby, leading to their improved
reasoning abilities across many tasks. While, TALMs have been successfully
employed in different question-answering benchmarks, their efficacy on complex
mathematical reasoning benchmarks, and the potential complementary benefits
offered by tools for knowledge retrieval and mathematical equation solving are
open research questions. In this work, we present MathSensei, a tool-augmented
large language model for mathematical reasoning. We study the complementary
benefits of the tools - knowledge retriever (Bing Web Search), program
generator + executor (Python), and symbolic equation solver (Wolfram-Alpha API)
through evaluations on mathematical reasoning datasets. We perform exhaustive
ablations on MATH, a popular dataset for evaluating mathematical reasoning on
diverse mathematical disciplines. We also conduct experiments involving
well-known tool planners to study the impact of tool sequencing on the model
performance. MathSensei achieves 13.5% better accuracy over gpt-3.5-turbo with
Chain-of-Thought on the MATH dataset. We further observe that TALMs are not as
effective for simpler math word problems (in GSM-8K), and the benefit increases
as the complexity and required knowledge increases (progressively over AQuA,
MMLU-Math, and higher level complex questions in MATH). The code and data are
available at https://github.com/Debrup-61/MathSensei.

The aim of the present paper is to describe self-duality and C*- reflexivity
of Hilbert {\bf A}-modules $\cal M$ over monotone complete C*-algebras {\bf A}
by the completeness of the unit ball of $\cal M$ with respect to two types of
convergence being defined, and by a structural criterion. The derived results
generalize earlier results of {\sc H.~Widom} [Duke Math.~J.~23, 309-324, MR 17
\# 1228] and {\sc W.~L.~Paschke} [Trans. Amer.~Math.~Soc.~182, 443-468, MR 50
\# 8087, Canadian J.~Math.~26, 1272-1280, MR 57 \# 10433]. For Hilbert
C*-modules over commutative AW*-algebras the equivalence of the self-duality
property and of the Kaplansky-Hilbert property is reproved, (cf. {\sc M.~Ozawa}
[J.~Math.~Soc.~Japan 36, 589-609, MR 85m:46068] ). Especially, one derives that
for a C*-algebra {\bf A} the {\bf A}-valued inner pro\-duct of every Hilbert
{\bf A}-module $\cal M$ can be continued to an {\bf A}-valued inner product on
it's {\bf A}-dual Banach {\bf A}-module $\cal M$' turning $\cal M$' to a
self-dual Hilbert {\bf A}-module if and only if {\bf A} is monotone complete
(or, equivalently, additively complete) generalizing a result of {\sc
M.~Hamana} [Internat.~J.~Math.~3(1992), 185-204]. A classification of countably
generated self-dual Hilbert {\bf A}-modules over monotone complete C*-algebras
{\bf A} is established. The set of all bounded module operators ${\bf End}_A
(\cal M)$ on self-dual Hilbert {\bf A}-modules $\cal M$ over monotone complete
C*-algebras {\bf A} is proved again to be a monotone complete

A special case of a fundamental result of Loewner and Horn [Trans. Amer.
Math. Soc. 1969] says that given an integer $n \geq 1$, if the entrywise
application of a smooth function $f : (0,\infty) \to \mathbb{R}$ preserves the
set of $n \times n$ positive semidefinite matrices with positive entries, then
$f$ and its first $n-1$ derivatives are non-negative on $(0,\infty)$. In a
recent joint work with Belton-Guillot-Putinar [J. Eur. Math. Soc., in press],
we proved a stronger version, and used it to strengthen the Schoenberg-Rudin
characterization of dimension-free positivity preservers [Duke Math. J. 1942,
1959].
  In recent works with Belton-Guillot-Putinar [Adv. Math. 2016] and with Tao
[Amer. J. Math., in press] we used local, real-analytic versions at the origin
of the Horn-Loewner condition, and discovered unexpected connections between
entrywise polynomials preserving positivity and Schur polynomials. In this
paper, we unify these two stories via a Master Theorem (Theorem A) which (i)
simultaneously unifies and extends all of the aforementioned variants; and (ii)
proves the positivity of the first $n$ nonzero Taylor coefficients at
individual points rather than on all of $(0,\infty)$.
  A key step in the proof is a new determinantal / symmetric function
calculation (Theorem B), which shows that Schur polynomials arise naturally
from considering arbitrary entrywise maps that are sufficiently differentiable.
Of independent interest may be the following application to symmetric function
theory: we extend the Schur function expansion of Cauchy's (1841) determinant
(whose matrix entries are geometric series $1 / (1 - u_j v_k)$), as well as of
a determinant of Frobenius [J. reine angew. Math. 1882] (whose matrix entries
are a sum of two geometric series), to arbitrary power series, and over all
commutative rings.

Mathematical word problem-solving has long been recognized as a complex task
for small language models (SLMs). A recent study hypothesized that the smallest
model size, needed to achieve over 80% accuracy on the GSM8K benchmark, is 34
billion parameters. To reach this level of performance with smaller models,
researcher often train SLMs to generate Python code or use tools to help avoid
calculation errors. Additionally, they employ ensembling, where outputs of up
to 100 model runs are combined to arrive at a more accurate result. Result
selection is done using consensus, majority vote or a separate a verifier model
used in conjunction with the SLM. Ensembling provides a substantial boost in
accuracy but at a significant cost increase with multiple calls to the model
(e.g., Phi-GSM uses top-48 to boost the performance from 68.2 to 81.5).
  In this work, we present Orca-Math, a 7-billion-parameter SLM based on the
Mistral-7B, which achieves 86.81% on GSM8k without the need for multiple model
calls or the use of verifiers, code execution or any other external tools. Our
approach has the following key elements: (1) A high quality synthetic dataset
of 200K math problems created using a multi-agent setup where agents
collaborate to create the data, (2) An iterative learning techniques that
enables the SLM to practice solving problems, receive feedback on its solutions
and learn from preference pairs incorporating the SLM solutions and the
feedback. When trained with Supervised Fine-Tuning alone, Orca-Math achieves
81.50% on GSM8k pass@1 metric. With iterative preference learning, Orca-Math
achieves 86.81% pass@1. Orca-Math surpasses the performance of significantly
larger models such as LLAMA-2-70B, WizardMath-70B, Gemini-Pro, ChatGPT-3.5. It
also significantly outperforms other smaller models while using much smaller
data (hundreds of thousands vs. millions of problems).

Physical principles and mathematical structure involved in deriving an
analytical representation of the internal structure of the Sun is discussed.
For a two-parameter family of a non-linear matter density distribution, the run
of mass, pressure, temperature, and luminosity throughout the Sun is presented
in terms of Gauss' hypergeometric function. The system of differential
equations governing hydrostatic equilibrium and energy conservation for the
spherical Sun is proved to be a laboratory for the application of special
functions.

I'll outline the latest version of my limits of math course. The purpose of
this course is to illustrate the proofs of the key information-theoretic
incompleteness theorems of algorithmic information theory by means of
algorithms written in a specially designed version of LISP. The course is now
written in HTML with Java applets, and is available at
http://www.research.ibm.com/people/c/chaitin/lm . The LISP now used is much
friendlier than before, and because its interpreter is a Java applet it will
run in the Netscape browser as you browse my limits of math Web site.

We use a bosonization approach to show that the momentum distribution
$n_{\bf{k}}$ of normal Fermi systems with sufficiently singular interactions is
analytic in the vicinity of the non-interacting Fermi surface. These include
singular density-density interactions that diverge in $d$ dimensions stronger
than $ | {\bf{q}} |^{- 2 (d -1)}$ for vanishing momentum transfer ${\bf{q}}$,
but also fermions that are coupled to transverse gauge fields in $ d < 3$.

The $S=1/2$ antiferromagnetic Heisenberg model on multi-leg ladders is
investigated. Criticality of the ground-state transition is explored by means
of finite-size scaling. The ladders with an even number of legs and those with
an odd number of legs are distinguished clearly. In the former, the energy gap
opens up as $\Delta E\sim{J_\perp}$, where ${J_\perp}$ is the strength of the
antiferromagnetic inter-chain coupling. In the latter, the critical phase with
the central charge $c=1$ extends over the whole region of ${J_\perp}>0$.

We discuss how to apply the dimer method to Ising models on group lattices
having non trivial topological genus $g$. We find that the use of group
extension and the existence of both external and internal group isomorphisms
greatly reduces the number of distinct Pfaffians and leads to explicit
topological formulas for their sign and weight in the expansion of the
partition function. The complete solution for the Ising model on the Klein
lattice group $L(2,7)$ with $g=3$ is given.

Central extensions of the three-dimensional translation group T=Z^3 by the
unitary group U(1) (a group of factors) are considered within the frame of the
Mac~Lane method. All nonzero vectors t in T are considered to be generators of
T. This choice leads to very illustrative relations between the Mac~Lane method
and Zak's approach to magnetic translation groups. It is shown that factor
systems introduced by Zak and Brown can be realized only for the unitary group
U(1) and for some of its finite subgroups.

We consider certain two-dimensional systems with self--dual points including
uniform and disordered $q$-state Potts models. For systems with continuous
energy density (such as the disordered versions) it is established that the
self--dual point exhibits critical behavior: Infinite susceptibility, vanishing
magnetization and power law bounds for the decay of correlations.

It is reported a combined numerical approach to study the localization
properties of the one-dimensional tight-binding model with potential modulated
along the prime numbers. A localization-delocalization transition was found as
function of the potential intensity; it is also argued that there are
delocalized states for any value of the potential intensity.

We comment on the article by Fujimoto (1997 J. Phys. A: Math. Gen., Vol. 30,
3779), where the exact equilibrium crystal shape (ECS) in the critical Q-state
Potts model on the square lattice was calculated, and its equivalence with ECS
in the Ising model was established. We confirm these results, giving their
alternative derivation applying the transformation properties of the
one-particle dispersion relation in the six-vertex model. It is shown, that
this dispersion relation is identical with that in the Ising model on the
square lattice.

Propagation of pulses in myelinated fibers may be described by appropriate
solutions of spatially discrete FitzHugh-Nagumo systems. In these systems,
propagation failure may occur if either the coupling between nodes is not
strong enough or the recovery is too fast. We give an asymptotic construction
of pulses for spatially discrete FitzHugh-Nagumo systems which agrees well with
numerical simulations and discuss evolution of initial data into pulses and
pulse generation at a boundary. Formulas for the speed and length of pulses are
also obtained.

We consider spatially discrete bistable reaction-diffusion equations that
admit wave front solutions. Depending on the parameters involved, such wave
fronts appear to be pinned or to glide at a certain speed. We study the
transition of traveling waves to steady solutions near threshold and give
conditions for front pinning (propagation failure). The critical parameter
values are characterized at the depinning transition and an approximation for
the front speed just beyond threshold is given.

We propose an exact technique to calculate lower bounds of spectral gaps of
discrete time reversible Markov chains on finite state sets. Spectral gaps are
a common tool for evaluating convergence rates of Markov chains. As an
illustration, we successfully use this technique to evaluate the ``absorption
time'' of the ``Backgammon model'', a paradigmatic model for glassy dynamics.
We also discuss the application of this technique to the ``Contingency table
problem'', a notoriously difficult problem from probability theory. The
interest of this technique is that it connects spectral gaps, which are
quantities related to dynamics, with static quantities, calculated at
equilibrium.

Thermodynamics of the XXX Heisenberg model is studied. The trace of the
Boltzmann weight with respect to the Hilbert space is taken in the
thermodynamic limit with the number of up-spins being fixed. The expression of
the trace gives an explanation why the correct thermodynamic quantities are
derived from the string hypothesis. Combining this with the previous result, we
conclude that the free energy can be calculated only by assuming the Bethe
ansatz equation. The method is more direct than other known methods which were
used to derive the free energy.

We present a class of nonlinear Schroedinger equations (NLSEs) describing, in
the mean field approximation, systems of interacting particles. This class of
NLSEs is obtained generalizing expediently the approach proposed in Ref. [G.K.
Phys. Rev. A 55, 941 (1997)], where a classical system obeying to an
exclusion-inclusion principle is quantized using the Nelson stochastic
quantization. The new class of NLSEs is obtained starting from the most general
nonlinear classical kinetics compatible with a constant diffusion coefficient
D=\hbar/2m. Finally, in the case of s-stationary states, we propose a
transformation which linearizes the NLSEs here proposed.

We study the adsorption-desorption phase transition of directed branched
polymer in $d+1$ dimensions in contact with a line by mapping it to a $d$
dimensional hard core lattice gas at negative activity. We solve the model
exactly in 1+1 dimensions, and calculate the crossover exponent related to
fraction of monomers adsorbed at the critical point of surface transition, and
we also determine the density profile of the polymer in different phases. We
also obtain the value of crossover exponent in 2+1 dimensions and give the
scaling function of the sticking fraction for 1+1 and 2+1 dimensional directed
branched polymer.

Certain equations with integral constraints have as solutions time-periodic
pulses of a field-like unknown while a current-like unknown oscillates
periodically with time. A general asymptotic theory of this phenomenon, the
generalized Gunn effect, has been found recently. Here we extend this theory to
the case of nonlinearities having only one stable zero, which is the case for
the usual Gunn effect in n-GaAs. Our ideas are presented in the context of a
simple scalar model where the waves can be constructed analytically and
explicit expressions for asymptotic approximations can be found.

By considering the master equation of the partially asymmetric diffusion
process on a one-dimensional lattice, the most general boundary condition (i.e.
interactions) for the multi-species reaction-diffusion processes is considered.
Resulting system has various interactions including diffusion to left and
right, two-particle interactions $A_a A_b --> A_c A_d $ and the extended
n-particle drop-push interactions to left and right. We obtain three distinct
new models. The conditions on reaction rates to ensure the solvability of the
resulting models are obtained. The two-particle conditional probabilities are
calculated exactly.

A method is given to obtain closed form formulas for the energy and forces
for an aggregate of charges interacting via a logarithmic interaction under
periodic boundary conditions. The work done here is a generalization of
Glasser's results [M. L. Glasser, J. Math. Phys. 15, 188 (1974)] and is
obtained with a different and simpler method than that by Stremler [M. A.
Stremler, J. Math. Phys. 45, 3584 (2004)]. The simplicity of the formulas
derived here makes them extremely convenient in a computer simulation.

The housekeeping heat $Q\hk$ is the dissipated heat necessary to maintain the
violation of detailed balance in nonequilibrium steady states. By analyzing the
evolution of its probability distribution, we prove an integral fluctuation
theorem $\mean{\exp[-\beta Q\hk]}=1$ valid for arbitrary driven transitions
between steady states. We discuss Gaussian limiting cases and the difference
between the new theorem and both the Hatano-Sasa and the Jarzynski relation.

When electrons in a solid are excited to a higher energy band they leave
behind a vacancy (hole) in the original band which behaves like a positively
charged particle. Here we predict that holes can spontaneously order into a
regular lattice in semiconductors with sufficiently flat valence bands. The
critical hole to electron effective mass ratio required for this phase
transition is found to be of the order of 80.

The relationship between three probability distributions and their
maximizable entropy forms is discussed without postulating entropy property.
For this purpose, the entropy I is defined as a measure of uncertainty of the
probability distribution of a random variable x by a variational relationship,
a definition underlying the maximization of entropy for corresponding
distribution.

Extending the classical Legendre's result, we describe all solutions of the
inequality |x - a/b| < c/b^2 in terms of convergents of continued fraction
expansion of x. Namely, we show that a/b = (rp_{m+1} +- sp_m) / (rq_{m+1} +-
sq_m) for some nonnegative integers m,r,s such that rs < 2c.
  As an application of this result, we describe a modification of Verheul and
van Tilborg variant of Wiener's attack on RSA cryptosystem with small secret
exponent.

This paper presents the construction of the Seiberg-Witten-Floer homology of
three-manifolds with non-trivial rational homology, and some properties of the
invariant of three-manifolds obtained by computing the Euler characteristic.
This new version corrects a mistake and some misprints that appear in the
published version (Internat. J. Math., Vol.7, N.5 (1996) 671-696). Various
sections are rewritten in more detail.

Let $M$ be a compact Riemann surface, $h(x)$ a positive smooth function on
$M$. In this paper, we consider the functional $$J(u)={1/2}\int
\sb{M}|\bigtriangledown u|\sp 2 + 8\pi \int\sb{M}u -8\pi \log\int\sb{M}h\exp
{u}$$. We give a sufficient condition under which $J$ achieves its minimum.

We present a Riesz-like hyperholomorphic functional calculus for a set of
non-commuting operators based on the Clifford analysis. Applications to the
quantum field theory are described. Keywords: Functional calculus, Weyl
calculus, Riesz calculus, Clifford analysis, quantization, quantum field
theory. AMSMSC Primary:47A60, Secondary: 81T10

The paper deals with a fractional derivative introduced by means of the
Fourier transform. The explicit form of the kernel of general derivative
operator acting on the functions analytic on a curve in complex plane is
deduced and the correspondence with some well known approaches is shown. In
particular, it is shown how the uniqueness of the operation depends on the
derivative order type (integer, rational, irrational, complex) and the number
of poles of considered function in the complex plane.

We present the complete scheme of the application of the one-and two
dimensional subspace and subgroups method to five-dimensional gravity with a
$G_{3}$ group of motion. We do so in the space time and in the potential space
formalisms. From this method one obtains the Kramer, Belinsky-Ruffini,
Dobiasch-Maison, Cl\'{e}ment, Gross-Perry-Sorkin solutions etc. as special
cases.

The minimal prolongation structure for the Robinson-Trautman equations of
Petrov type III is shown to always include the infinite-dimensional,
contragredient algebra, K$_2$, which is of infinite growth. Knowledge of
faithful representations of this algebra would allow the determination of
B\"acklund transformations to evolve new solutions.

An algebraic classification of second order symmetric tensors in
5-dimensional Kaluza-Klein-type Lorentzian spaces is presented by using Jordan
matrices. We show that the possible Segre types are $[1,1111]$, [2111], [311],
[z,\bar{z},111], and the degeneracies thereof. A set of canonical forms for
each Segre type is found. The possible continuous groups of symmetry for each
canonical form are also studied.

We present a counter example to a theorem given by Amir {\em et al.} J. Math.
Phys. {\bf 35}, 3005 (1994). We also comment on a misleading statements of the
same reference.

When the Penrose-Goldberg (PG) superpotential is used to compute the angular
momentum of an axial symmetry, the Killing potential $Q_{(\varphi )}^{\mu\nu}$
for that symmetry is needed. Killing potentials used in the PG superpotential
must satisfy Penrose's equation. It is proved for the Schwarzschild and Kerr
solutions that the Penrose equation does not admit a $%Q_{(\varphi )}^{\mu\nu}$
at finite r and therefore the PG superpotential can only be used to compute
angular momentum asymptotically.

In this work a proposal for definition of twistors on generic curved spaces
is exposed and investigated. We consider superpositions of nearly autoparallel
and nearly geodesic maps (nearly conformal maps, nc-maps) of
(pseudo-)Riemannian spaces as generalizations of conformal transforms. We
introduce the nearly autoparallel twistor equations being compatible on nc-flat
spaces and study nearly autoparallel twistor structures generating curved
spaces and vacuum Einstein equations.

The Einstein's field equations of Friedmann-Robertson-Walker universes filled
with a dissipative fluid described by both the {\em truncated} and {\em
non-truncated} causal transport equations are analyzed using techniques from
dynamical systems theory. The equations of state, as well as the phase space,
are different from those used in the recent literature. In the de Sitter
expansion both the hydrodynamic approximation and the non-thermalizing
condition can be fulfilled simultaneously. For $\Lambda=0$ these expansions
turn out to be stable provided a certain parameter of the fluid is lower than
1/2. The more general case $\Lambda>0$ is studied in detail as well.

The asymptotic behaviour of a class of inhomogeneous scalar field cosmologies
with a Liouville type of potential is studied. We define a set of new variables
for which the phase space of the system of Einstein equations is bounded. This
allows us to perform a complete analysis of the evolution of these cosmologies.
We also discuss the extension of the cosmic no-hair theorem.

A distributional method to solve the Einstein's field equations for thin
shells is formulated. The familiar field equations and jump conditions of
Darmois-Israel formalism are derived. A carefull analysis of the Bianchi
identities shows that, for cases under consideration, they make sense as
distributions and lead to jump conditions of Darmois-Israel formalism.

This work addresses a specific technical question of relevance to canonical
quantization of gravity using the so-called new variables and loop-based
techniques of Ashtekar, Rovelli, and Smolin. In particular, certain
`superselection laws' that arise in current applications of these techniques to
solving the diffeomorphism constraint are considered. Their status is
elucidated by studying an analogous system: 2+1 Euclidean gravity. For that
system, these superselection laws are shown to be spurious. This, however, is
only a technical difficulty. The usual quantum theory may still be obtained
from a loop representation and the technique known as `Refined Algebraic
Quantization.'

In this paper we study a new type of solution of the spherically symmetric,
Einstein-Yang/Mills (EYM) equations with SU(2) gauge group. These solutions are
well-behaved in the far-field, and have a Reissner-Nordstrom type essential
singularity at the origin. These solutions display some novel features which
are not present in particle-like, or black-hole solutions. Any spherically
symmetric solution to the EYM equations, defined in the far-field, is either a
particle-like solution, a black-hole solution, or one of these RNL solutions.

Recently a simple solution of the vacuum Einstein-Maxwell field equations was
given describing a plane electromagnetic shock wave sharing its wave front with
a plane gravitational impulse wave. We present here an exact solution of the
vacuum Einstein-Maxwell field equations describing the head-on collision of
such a wave with a plane gravitational impulse wave. The solution has the
Penrose-Khan solution and a solution obtained by Griffiths as separate limiting
cases.

We establish the existence of hairy black holes in su(N) Einstein-Yang-Mills
theories, described by N-1 parameters, corresponding to the nodes of the gauge
field functions.

We propose a general framework for quantum field theory on the de Sitter
space-time (i.e. for local field theories whose truncated Wightman functions
are not required to vanish). By requiring that the fields satisfy a weak
spectral condition, formulated in terms of the analytic continuation properties
of their Wightman functions, we show that a geodesical observer will detect in
the corresponding ``vacuum'' a blackbody radiation at temperature T=1/(2 \pi
R). We also prove the analogues of the PCT, Reeh-Schlieder and
Bisognano-Wichmann theorems.

The computational use of Killing potentials which satisfy Penrose's equation
is discussed. Penrose's equation is presented as a conformal Killing-Yano
equation and the class of possible solutions is analyzed. It is shown that
solutions exist in spacetimes of Petrov type O, D or N. In the particular case
of the Kerr background, it is shown that there can be no Killing potential for
the axial Killing vector.

It is shown that if an asymptotically flat spacetime is asymptotically
stationary, in the sense that $\Lie_{\xi} g_{ab}$ vanishes at the rate $\sim
t^{-3}$ for asymptotically timelike vector field $\xi^a$, and the
energy-momentum tensor vanishes at the rate $\sim t^{-4}$, then the spacetime
is an asymptotically Schwarzschild spacetime. This gives a new aspect of the
uniqueness theorem of a black hole.

The b-boundary construction by B. Schmidt is a general way of providing a
boundary to a manifold with connection. It has been shown to have undesirable
topological properties however. C. J. S. Clarke gave a result showing that for
space-times, non-Hausdorffness is to be expected in general, but the argument
contains some errors. We show that under somewhat different conditions on the
curvature, the b-boundary will be non-Hausdorff, and illustrate the degeneracy
by applying the conditions to some well known exact solutions of general
relativity.

All non-twisting Petrov-type N solutions of vacuum Einstein field equations
with cosmological constant Lambda are summarized. They are shown to belong
either to the non-expanding Kundt class or to the expanding Robinson-Trautman
class. Invariant subclasses of each class are defined and the corresponding
metrics are given explicitly in suitable canonical coordinates. Relations
between the subclasses and their geometrical properties are analyzed. In the
subsequent paper these solutions are interpreted as exact gravitational waves
propagating in de Sitter or anti-de Sitter spacetimes.

The constructive method of conformal blocks is developed for the construction
of global solutions for two-dimensional metrics having one Killing vector. The
method is proved to yeild a smooth universal covering space with a smooth
pseudo-Riemannian metric. The Schwarzschild,
  Reisner--Nordstrom solutions, extremal black hole, dilaton black hole, and
constant curvature surfaces are considered as examples.

We present in this paper a covariant quantization of the ``massive'' vector
field on de Sitter (dS) space based on analyticity in the complexified
pseudo-Riemanian manifold. The correspondence between unitary irreducible
representations of the de Sitter group and the field theory on de Sitter
space-time is essential in our approach. We introduce the Wightman-G\"arding
axiomatic for vector field on dS space. The Hilbert space structure and the
unsmeared field operators $K_\alpha(x)$ are also defined. This work is in the
direct continuation of previous one concerning the scalar and the spinor cases.

Symmetries of spacetimes with null dust field as a source compatible with
asymptotic flatness are studied by using the Bondi-Sachs-van der Burg
formalism. It is shown that in an axially symmetric spacetime with null dust
field in which at least locally a smooth null infinity in the sense of Penrose
exists, the only allowable additional Killing vector forming with the axial one
a two-dimensional Lie algebra (the axial and the additional Killing vector are
not assumed to be hypersurface orthogonal) is a supertranslational Killing
vector and the gravitational field is then non-radiative (the Weyl tensor has a
non-radiative character).

It is well-known that the equations for a simple fluid can be cast into what
is called their Lagrange formulation. We introduce a notion of a generalized
Lagrange formulation, which is applicable to a wide variety of systems of
partial differential equations. These include numerous systems of physical
interest, in particular, those for various material media in general
relativity. There is proved a key theorem, to the effect that, if the original
(Euler) system admits an initial-value formulation, then so does its
generalized Lagrange formulation.

We study a time-dependent 5D metric which contains a static 4D sub-metric
whose 3D part is spherically symmetric. An expansion in the metric coefficient
allow us to obtain close-to Schwarzschild approximation to a class of
spherically-symmetric solutions. Using Campbell's embedding theorem and the
induced-matter formalism we obtain two 4D solutions. One describes a source
with the stiff equation of state believed to be applicable to dense
astrophysical objects, and the other describes a spherical source with a radial
heat flow.

We present a solution generating technique for anisotropic fluids which
preserves specific Killing symmetries. Anisotropic matter distributions that
can be used with the one parameter Ehlers-Geroch transform are discussed.
Example spacetimes that support the appropriate anisotropic stress-energy are
found and the transformation applied. The 3+1 black string solution is one of
the spacetimes with the appropriate matter distribution. Use of the transform
with a black string seed is discussed.

It is shown that unlike the perfect fluid case, anisotropic fluids (principal
stresses unequal) may be geodesic, without this implying the vanishing of
(spatial) pressure gradients. Then the condition of vanishing four acceleration
is integrated in non-comoving coordinates. The resulting models are necessarily
dynamic, and the mass function is expressed in terms of the fluid velocity as
measured by a locally Minkowskian observer. An explicit example is worked out.

We present an exact solution of Einstein's field equations in toroidal
coordinates. The solution has three regions: an interior with a string equation
of state; an Israel boundary layer; an exterior with constant isotropic
pressure and constant density, locally isometric to anti-de Sitter spacetime.
The exterior can be a cosmological vacuum with negative cosmological constant.
The size and mass of the toroidal loop depend on the size of the cosmological
constant.

We establish exactly solvable models for the motion of neutral particles,
electrically charged point and spin particles (U(1) symmetry), isospin
particles (SU(2) symmetry), and particles with color charges (SU(3) symmetry)
in a gravitational wave background. Special attention is devoted to parametric
effects induced by the gravitational field. In particular, we discuss
parametric instabilities of the particle motion and parametric oscillations of
the vectors of spin, isospin, and color charge.

We investigate matter symmetries of cylindrically symmetric static
spacetimes. These are classified for both cases when the energy-momentum tensor
is non-degenerate and also when it is degenerate. It is found that the
non-degenerate energy-momentum tensor gives either three, four, five, six,
seven or ten independent matter collineations in which three are isometries and
the rest are proper. The worth mentioning cases are those where we obtain the
group of matter collineations finite-dimensional even the energy-momentum
tensor is degenerate. These are either three, four, five or ten. Some examples
are constructed satisfying the constraints on the energy-momentum tensor.

In this note we give an alternative geometrical derivation of the results
recently presented by Garcia-Godinez, Newman and Silva-Ortigoza in [1] on the
class of all two-dimensional riemannian and lorentzian metrics from 2nd order
ODEs which are in duality with the two dimensional Hamilton-Jacobi equation. We
show that, as it happens in the Null Surface Formulation of General Relativity,
the Wuschmann-like condition can be obtained as a requirement of a vanishing
torsion tensor. Furthermore, from these second order ODEs we obtain the
associated Cartan connections.

There is constructed, for each member of a one-parameter family of
cosmological models, which is obtained from the Kottler-Schwarzschild-de Sitter
spacetime by identification under discrete isometries, a slicing by spherically
symmetric Cauchy hypersurfaces of constant mean curvature. These slicings are
unique up to the action of the static Killing vector. Analytical and numerical
results are found as to when different leaves of these slicings do not
intersect, i.e. when the slicings form foliations.

We establish an algorithm that produces a new solution to the Einstein field
equations, with an anisotropic matter distribution, from a given seed isotropic
solution. The new solution is expressed in terms of integrals of known
functions, and the integration can be completed in principle. The applicability
of this technique is demonstrated by generating anisotropic isothermal spheres
and anisotropic constant density Schwarzschild spheres. Both of these solutions
are expressed in closed form in terms of elementary functions, and this
facilitates physical analysis.

The condition for pressure isotropy, for spherically symmetric gravitational
fields with charged and uncharged matter, is reduced to a recurrence equation
with variable, rational coefficients. This difference equation is solved in
general using mathematical induction leading to an exact solution to the
Einstein field equations which extends the isotropic model of John and Maharaj.
The metric functions, energy density and pressure are well behaved which
suggests that this model could be used to describe a relativistic sphere. The
model admits a barotropic equation of state which approximates a polytrope
close to the stellar centre.

A simple diffeomorphism invariant theory of connections with the non-compact
structure group R of real numbers is quantized. The theory is defined on a
four-dimensional 'space-time' by an action resembling closely the self-dual
Plebanski action for general relativity. The space of quantum states is
constructed by means of projective techniques by Kijowski. Except this point
the applied quantization procedure is based on Loop Quantum Gravity methods.

The nonuniversal behavior of two noncompact nonlinear sigma models is
described. When these theories are defined on a lattice, the behavior of the
order parameter (magnetization) near the critical point is sensitive to the
details of the lattice definition. This is counter to experience and to
expectations based on the ideas of universality.

A method is presented for deriving the nonrelativistic quantum hamiltonian of
a free massive fermion from the relativistic lagrangian of the
Lorentz-violating standard-model extension. It permits the extraction of terms
at arbitrary order in a Foldy-Wouthuysen expansion in inverse powers of the
mass. The quantum particle hamiltonian is obtained and its nonrelativistic
limit is given explicitly to third order.

The perturbation theory over inverse interaction constant $1/g$ is
constructed for Yang-Mills theory. It is shown that the new perturbation theory
is free from the gauge ghosts and Gribov's ambiguities, each order over $1/g$
presents the gauge-invariant quantity. It is remarkable that offered
perturbation theory did not contain divergences, at least in the vector fields
sector, and no renormalization procedure is necessary for it.

We present general solutions to the equations of motion for a superconducting
relativistic chiral string that satisfy the unit magnitude constraint in terms
of products of rotations. From this result we show how to construct a general
family of odd harmonic superconducting chiral loops. We further generalise the
product of rotations to an arbitrary number of dimensions.

We study a topological Yang-Mills theory with $N=2$ fermionic symmetry. Our
formalism is a field theoretical interpretation of the Donaldson polynomial
invariants on compact K\"{a}hler surfaces. We also study an analogous theory on
compact oriented Riemann surfaces and briefly discuss a possible application of
the Witten's non-Abelian localization formula to the problems in the case of
compact K\"{a}hler surfaces.

We prove that the deformed oscillator superalgebra $W_q(n)$ (which in the
Fock representation is generated essentially by $n$ pairs of $q$-bosons) is a
factor algebra of the quantized universal enveloping algebra $U_q[osp(1/2n)]$.
We write down a $q$-analog of the Cartan-Weyl basis for the deformed
$osp(1/2n)$ and give also an oscillator realization of all Cartan-Weyl
generators.

Two integrals along the world trajectory of its curvature and torsion are
added to the standard action for the point-like spinless relativistic particle.
Since here the three-dimensional space-time is considered at the beginning, the
torsion of the world curve is defined with a sign in contrast to the previous
consideration: V. V. Nesterenko, J. Math. Phys. 32, 3315 (1991). Upon obtaining
a complete set of constraints in the phase space a generalized Hamiltonian
description of a new version of the model is constructed. This enables one to
quantize the model canonically and to derive exactly the relation between the
spin and mass of the states.

We study the algebra $B_q(\ge)$ presented by Kashiwara and introduce
intertwiners similar to $q$-vertex operators. We show that a matrix determined
by 2-point functions of the intertwiners coincides with a quantum R-matrix (up
to a diagonal matrix) and give the commutation relations of the intertwiners.
We also introduce an analogue of the universal R-matrix for the Kashiwara
algebra.

This short note is closely related to Sen-Zwiebach paper on gauge
transformations in Batalin-Vilkovisky theory (hep-th 9309027). We formulate
some conditions of physical equivalence of solutions to the quantum master
equation and use these conditions to give a very transparent analysis of
symmetry transformations in BV-approach. We prove that in some sense every
quantum observable (i.e. every even function $H$ obeying
$\Delta_{\rho}(He^S)=0$) determines a symmetry of the theory with the action
functional $S$ satisfying quantum master equation $\Delta_{\rho}e^S=0$ \end

We consider representations of quadratic $R$-matrix algebras by means of
certain first order ordinary differential operators. These operators turn out
to act as parameter shifting operators on the Gauss hypergeometric function and
its limit cases and on classical orthogonal polynomials. The relationship with
W. Miller's treatment of Lie algebras of first order differential operators
will be discussed.

After briefly reviewing how the (proper-time) Schwinger's formula works for
computing the Casimir energy in the case of "scalar electrodynamics" where the
boundary conditions are dictated by two perfectly conducting parallel plates
with separation "a" in the Z-axis, we propose a slightly modification in the
previous approach based on an analytical continuation method. As we will see,
for the case at hand our formula does not need the use of Poisson summation to
get a (renormalized) finite result.

The vector system of linear differential equations for a field with arbitrary
fractional spin is proposed using infinite-dimensional half-bounded unitary
representations of the $\overline{SL(2,R)}$ group. In the case of
$(2j+1)$-dimensional nonunitary representations of that group, $0<2j\in Z$,
they are transformed into equations for spin-$j$ fields. A local gauge symmetry
associated to the vector system of equations is identified and the simplest
gauge invariant field action, leading to these equations, is constructed.

The purely algebraic notion of CQG algebra (algebra of functions on a compact
quantum group) is defined. In a straightforward algebraic manner, the
Peter-Weyl theorem for CQG algebras and the existence of a unique positive
definite Haar functional on any CQG algebra are established. It is shown that a
CQG algebra can be naturally completed to a $C^\ast$-algebra. The relations
between our approach and several other approaches to compact quantum groups are
discussed.

It is shown that the heat kernel operator for the Laplace operator on any
covariantly constant curved background, i.e. in symmetric spaces, may be
presented in form of an averaging over the Lie group of isometries with some
nontrivial measure. Using this representation the heat kernel diagonal, i.e.
the heat kernel in coinciding points is obtained. Related topics concerning the
structure of symmetric spaces and the calculation of the effective action are
discussed.

This note has two purposes. First we establish that the map defined in [L,
$\S 40.2.5$ (a)] is an isomorphism for certain admissible sequences. Second we
show the map gives rise to a convex basis of Poincar\'e--Birkhoff--Witt (PBW)
type for $\bup$, an affine untwisted quantized enveloping algebra of
Drinfel$'$d and Jimbo. The computations in this paper are made possible by
extending the usual braid group action by certain outer automorphisms of the
algebra.

Using the technique developed by Fronsdal and Galindo (Lett. Math. Phys. 27
(1993) 57) for studying the Hopf duality between the quantum algebras
$Fun_{p,q}(GL(2))$ and $U_{p,q}(gl(2))$, the Hopf structure of
$U_{p,q}(gl(1|1))$, dual to $Fun_{p,q}(GL(1|1))$, is derived and the
corresponding universal ${\cal T}$-matrix of $Fun_{p,q}(GL(1|1))$, embodying
the suitably modified exponential relationship $U_{p,q}(gl(1|1))$ $\rightarrow$
$Fun_{p,q}(GL(1|1))$, is obtained.

Self-dual gravity may be reformulated as the two dimensional principal chiral
model with the group of area preserving diffeomorphisms as its gauge group.
Using this formulation, it is shown that self-dual gravity contains an infinite
dimensional hidden symmetry whose generators form the Affine (Kac-Moody)
algebra associated with the Lie algebra of area preserving diffeomorphisms.
This result provides an observable algebra and a solution generating technique
for self-dual gravity.

We investigate inhomogeneous quantum groups G built from a quantum group H
and translations. The corresponding commutation relations contain inhomogeneous
terms. Under certain conditions (which are satisfied in our study of quantum
Poincare groups [12]) we prove that our construction has correct `size', find
the R-matrices and the analogues of Minkowski space for G.

The $SL(2,\R)$ WZNW $\rightarrow$ Liouville reduction leads to a nontrivial
phase space on the classical level both in $0+1$ and $1+1$ dimensions. To study
the consequences in the quantum theory, the quantum mechanics of the $0+1$
dimensional, point particle version of the constrained WZNW model is
investigated. The spectrum and the eigenfunctions of the obtained---rather
nontrivial---theory are given, and the physical connection between the pieces
of the reduced configuration space is discussed in all the possible cases of
the constraint parameters.

This paper shows that there is a correspondence between quasi-exactly
solvable models in quantum mechanics and sets of orthogonal polynomials $\{
P_n\}$. The quantum-mechanical wave function is the generating function for the
$P_n (E)$, which are polynomials in the energy $E$. The condition of
quasi-exact solvability is reflected in the vanishing of the norm of all
polynomials whose index $n$ exceeds a critical value $J$. The zeros of the
critical polynomial $P_J(E)$ are the quasi-exact energy eigenvalues of the
system.

We consider the properties of massive one particle states on a translation
covariant Haag-Kastler net in Minkowski space. In two dimensional theories,
these states can be interpreted as soliton states and we are interested in the
existence of antisolitons. It is shown that for each soliton state there are
three different possibilities for the construction of an antisoliton sector
which are equivalent if the (statistical) dimension of the corresponding
soliton sector is finite.

The Schr\"odinger-type formalism of the Klein-Gordon quantum mechanics is
adapted for the case of the $SL(2,\R)$ spacetime. The free particle case is
solved, the results of a recent work are reproduced while all the other,
topologically nontrivial solutions and the antiparticle modes are also found,
and a deeper insight into the physical content of the theory is given.

We consider the universal central extension of the Lie algebra $\Vect
(S^1)${\math \s}$ C^{\infty}(S^1)$. The coadjoint representation of this Lie
algebra has a natural geometric interpretation by matrix analogues of the
Sturm-Liouville operators. This approach leads to new Lie superalgebras
generalizing the well-known Neveu-Schwartz algebra.

Strongly self-dual Yang-Mills fields in even dimensional spaces are
characterised by a set of constraints on the eigenvalues of the Yang-Mills
fields $F_{\mu \nu}$. We derive a topological bound on ${\bf R}^8$, $\int_{M} (
F,F )^2 \geq k \int_{M} p_1^2$ where $p_1$ is the first Pontrjagin class of the
SO(n) Yang-Mills bundle and $k$ is a constant. Strongly self-dual Yang-Mills
fields realise the lower bound.

The prolongation structure of Zhiber-Mikhailov-Shabat (ZMS) equation is
studied by using Wahlquist-Estabrook's method. The Lax-pair for ZMS equation
and Riccati equations for pseudopotentials are formulated respectively from
linear and nonlinear realizations of the prolongation structure. Based on
nonlinear realization of the prolongation structure, an auto-B$\ddot{a}$cklund
transformation of ZMS equation is obtained.

Some algebraic aspects of field quantization in space-time with boundaries
are discussed. We introduce an associative algebra, whose exchange properties
are inferred from the scattering processes in integrable models with reflecting
boundary conditions on the half line. The basic properties of this algebra are
established and the Fock representations associated with certain involutions
are derived. We apply these results for the construction of quantum fields and
for the study of scattering on the half line.

Octonionic algebra being nonassociative is difficult to manipulate. We
introduce left-right octonionic barred operators which enable us to reproduce
the associative GL(8,R) group. Extracting the basis of GL(4,C), we establish an
interesting connection between the structure of left-right octonionic barred
operators and generic 4x4 complex matrices. As an application we give an
octonionic representation of the 4-dimensional Clifford algebra.

The O(3) sigma model and abelian Higgs model in two space dimensions admit
topological (Bogomol'nyi) lower bounds on their energy. This paper proposes
lattice versions of these systems which maintain the Bogomol'nyi bounds. One
consequence is that instantons/solitons/vortices on the lattice then have a
high degree of stability.

We describe a class of topological field theories called ``balanced
topological field theories.'' These theories are associated to moduli problems
with vanishing virtual dimension and calculate the Euler character of various
moduli spaces. We show that these theories are closely related to the geometry
and equivariant cohomology of ``iterated superspaces'' that carry two
differentials. We find the most general action for these theories, which turns
out to define Morse theory on field space. We illustrate the constructions with
numerous examples. Finally, we relate these theories to topological
sigma-models twisted using an isometry of the target space.

We give a representation, in terms of iterated Mellin-Barnes integrals, of
periods on multi-moduli Calabi-Yau manifolds arising in superstring theory.
Using this representation and the theory of multidimensional residues, we
present a method for analytic continuation of the fundamental period in the
form of Horn series.

The theory of free relativistic fields is shown to arise in a unified manner
from higher-order, configuration-space, irreducible representations of the
Poincar\'e group. A de Sitter subalgebra, in the massive case, and a Poincar\'e
subalgebra, in the massless case, of the enveloping algebra of the Poincar\'e
group are the suitable higher-order polarizations. In particular, a simple
group-theoretic derivation of the Dirac equation is given.

Highest-weight type representation theories of the affine sl(2) and N=2
superconformal algebras are shown to be equivalent modulo the respective
spectral flows.

We propose a generalization of meanders, i.e., configurations of
non-selfintersecting loops crossing a line through a given number of points, to
SU(N). This uses the reformulation of meanders as pairs of reduced elements of
the Temperley-Lieb algebra, a SU(2)-related quotient of the Hecke algebra, with
a natural generalization to SU(N). We also derive explicit formulas for SU(N)
meander determinants, defined as the Gram determinants of the corresponding
bases of the Hecke algebra.

In a series of papers published in this Journal (J. Math. Phys.), a
discussion was started on the significance of a new definition of projective
representations in quaternionic Hilbert spaces. The present paper gives what we
believe is a resolution of the semantic differences that had apparently tended
to obscure the issues.

Two dimensional QCD is bosonized to be an integrably deformed
Wess-Zumino-Witten model under proper limit. Fermions are identified having
indices of the Grassmann manifold. Conditions for integrability are analyzed
and their physical meanings are discussed. We also address the nature of the
exactly solvable part of the theory and find the infinitely many conserved
quantities.

An algebraic cohomological characterization of a class of linearly broken
Ward identities is provided. The examples of the topological vector
supersymmetry and of the Landau ghost equation are discussed in detail. The
existence of such a linearly broken Ward identities turns out to be related to
BRST exact antifield dependent cocycles with negative ghost number.

We give an intrinsic definition of the special geometry which arises in
global N=2 supersymmetry in four dimensions. The base of an algebraic
integrable system exhibits this geometry, and with an integrality hypothesis
any special Kahler manifold is so related to an integrable system. The
cotangent bundle of a special Kahler manifold carries a hyperkahler metric. We
also define special geometry in supergravity in terms of the special geometry
in global supersymmetry.

We compute the genus one correction to the integrable hierarchy describing
coupling to gravity of a 2D topological field theory. The bihamiltonian
structure of the hierarchy is given by a classical W-algebra; we compute the
central charge of this algebra. We also express the generating function of
elliptic Gromov - Witten invariants via tau-function of the isomonodromy
deformation problem arising in the theory of WDVV equations of associativity.

We show that, in the region where monopoles are well separated, the
L^2-metric on the moduli space of n-monopoles is exponentially close to the
T^n-invariant hyperk\"ahler metric proposed by Gibbons and Manton. The proof is
based on a description of the Gibbons-Manton metric as a metric on a certain
moduli space of solutions to Nahm's equations, and on twistor methods. In
particular, we show how the twistor description of monopole metrics determines
the asymptotic metric.

We determine the representations of the ``conformal'' group ${\bar{SO}}_0(2,
n)$, the restriction of which on the ``Poincar\'e'' subgroup ${\bar{SO}}_0(1,
n-1).T_n$ are unitary irreducible. We study their restrictions to the ``De
Sitter'' subgroups ${\bar{SO}}_0(1, n)$ and ${\bar{SO}}_0(2, n-1)$ (they remain
irreducible or decompose into a sum of two) and the contraction of the latter
to ``Poincar\'e''. Then we discuss the notion of masslessness in $n$ dimensions
and compare the situation for general $n$ with the well-known case of
4-dimensional space-time, showing the specificity of the latter.

The osp(1,2)-covariant Lagrangian quantization of irreducible gauge theories
[hep-th/9712204] is generalized to L-stage reducible theories. The dependence
of the generating functional of Green's functions on the choice of gauge in the
massive case is dicussed and Ward identities related to osp(1,2) symmetry are
given. Massive first stage theories with closed gauge algebra are studied in
detail. The generalization of the Chapline-Manton model and topological
Yang-Mills theory to the case of massive fields is consedered as examples.

A gas of $N$ Bogomol'nyi vortices in the Abelian Higgs model is studied on a
compact Riemann surface of genus $g$ and area $A$. The volume of the moduli
space is computed and found to depend on $N, g$ and $A$, but not on other
details of the shape of the surface. The volume is then used to find the
thermodynamic partition function and it is shown that the thermodynamical
properties of such a gas do not depend on the genus of the Riemann surface.

A quantization of field theory based on the DeDonder-Weyl covariant
Hamiltonian formulation is discussed. A hypercomplex extension of quantum
mechanics, in which the space-time Clifford algebra replaces that of the
complex numbers, appears as a result of quantization of Poisson brackets of
differential forms put forward for the DeDonder-Weyl formulation earlier. The
proposed covariant hypercomplex Schr\"odinger equation is shown to lead in the
classical limit to the DeDonder-Weyl Hamilton-Jacobi equation and to obey the
Ehrenfest principle in the sense that the DeDonder-Weyl canonical field
equations are satisfied for the expectation values of properly chosen
operators.

It is shown that the multiplicative anomaly in the vector-axial-vector model,
which apparently has nothing to do with the breaking of classical current
symmetries, nevertheless is strictly related to the well known consistent and
covariant anomalies.

Recently Jarvis has proved a correspondence between SU(N) monopoles and
rational maps of the Riemann sphere into flag manifolds. Furthermore, he has
outlined a construction to obtain the monopole fields from the rational map. In
this paper we examine this construction in some detail and provide explicit
examples for spherically symmetric SU(N) monopoles with various symmetry
breakings. In particular we show how to obtain these monopoles from harmonic
maps into complex projective spaces. The approach extends in a natural way to
monopoles in hyperbolic space and we use it to construct new spherically
symmetric SU(N) hyperbolic monopoles.

The quantum mechanics of a spin 1/2 particle on a locally spatial constant
curvature part of a (2+1)- spacetime in the presence of a constant magnetic
field of a magnetic monopole has been investigated. It has been shown that
these 2-dimensional Hamiltonians have the degeneracy group of SL(2,c), and
para-supersymmetry of arbitrary order or shape invariance. Using this symmetry
we have obtained its spectrum algebraically. The Dirac's quantization condition
has been obtained from the representation theory. Also, it is shown that the
presence of angular deficit suppresses both the degeneracy and shape
invariance.

Classical description of relativistic pointlike particle with intrinsic
degrees of freedom such as isospin or colour is proposed. It is based on the
Lagrangian of general form defined on the tangent bundle over a principal fibre
bundle. It is shown that the dynamics splits into the external dynamics which
describes the interaction of particle with gauge field in terms of Wong
equations, and the internal dynamics which results in a spatial motion of
particle via integrals of motion only. A relevant Hamiltonian description is
built too.

By analysing supersymmetry transformations we derive new BPS equations for
the D=11 fivebrane propagating in flat space that involve the world-volume
three-form. The equations generalise those of 2,3,4 and 5 dimensional special
Lagrangian submanifolds and are relevant for describing membranes ending on
these submanifolds.

We develop a general framework for quantum field theory on noncommutative
spaces, i.e., spaces with quantum group symmetry. We use the path integral
approach to obtain expressions for $n$-point functions. Perturbation theory
leads us to generalised Feynman diagrams which are braided, i.e., they have
non-trivial over- and under-crossings. We demonstrate the power of our approach
by applying it to $\phi^4$-theory on the quantum 2-sphere. We find that the
basic divergent diagram of the theory is regularised.

It is found that the 2-index potential in nonabelian theories does not behave
geometrically as a connection but that, considered as an element of the second
de Rham cohomology group twisted by a flat connection, it fits well with all
the properties assigned to it in various physical contexts. We also prove some
results on the Euler characteristic of the twisted de Rham complex. Finally,
provided that some conditions are satisfied, we propose a non-Abelian
generalisation of S-duality.

Instanton correction of prepotential of one-dimensional SL(2) Ruijsenaars
model is presented with the help of Picard-Fuchs equation of Pakuliak-Perelomov
type. It is shown that the instanton induced prepotential reduces to that of
the SU(2) gauge theory coupled with a massive adjoint hypermultiplet.

In contrast with the classical gauge group cases, any method to prove exactly
the scaling relation which relates moduli and prepotential is not known in the
case of exceptional gauge groups. This paper provides a direct method to
establish this relation by using Picard-Fuchs equations. In particular, it is
shown that the scaling relation found by Ito in N=2 supersymmetric G_2
Yang-Mills theory actually holds exactly.

It is shown how $W$-algebras emerge from very peculiar canonical
transformations with respect to the canonical symplectic structure on a compact
Riemann surface. The action of smooth diffeomorphisms of the cotangent bundle
on suitable generating functions is written in the BRS framework while a
$W$-symmetry is exhibited. Subsequently, the complex structure of the symmetry
spaces is studied and the related BRS properties are discussed. The specific
example of the so-called $W_3$-algebra is treated in relation to some other
different approaches.

Using a gauge invariant reduction we directly integrate the SL(2,R)/U(1) WZNW
theory. We prove that the conserved parafermions of this theory are coset
currents. Quantum mechanically, the parafermion algebra, the energy-momentum
tensor, and `auxiliary' parafermions are deformed in a self-consistent manner.

We propose a monodromy invariant pairing $K_{hol}(X) \otimes H_3(X^\vee,\ZZ)
\to \IQ$ for a mirror pair of Calabi-Yau manifolds, $(X,X^\vee)$. This pairing
is utilized implicitly in the previous calculations of the prepotentials for
Gromov-Witten invariants. After identifying the pairing explicitly we interpret
some hypergeometric series from the viewpoint of homological mirror symmetry
due to Kontsevich. Also we consider the local mirror symmetry limit to del
Pezzo surfaces in Calabi-Yau 3-folds.

The standard evaluation of the partition function $Z$ of Schwarz's
topological field theory results in the Ray--Singer analytic torsion. Here we
present an alternative evaluation which results in Z=1. Mathematically, this
amounts to a novel perspective on analytic torsion: it can be formally written
as a ratio of volumes of spaces of differential forms which is formally equal
to 1 by Hodge duality. An analogous result for Reidemeister combinatorial
torsion is also obtained.

In this work we construct an embedding of a nontrivial central extension of
the contact superconformal algebra K'(4) into the Lie superalgebra of
pseudodifferential symbols on the supercircle S^{1|2}. Associated with this
embedding is a one-parameter family of spinor-like tiny irreducible
representations of K'(4) realized just on 4 fields instead of the usual 16.

The relativistic generalization of the Chaplygin gas, put forward by Jackiw
and Polychronakos, is derived in Duval's Kaluza-Klein framework, using a
universal quadratic Lagrangian. Our framework yields a simplified proof of the
field-dependent Poincar\'e symmetry Our action is related to the usual
Nambu-Goto action [world volume] of $d$-branes in the same way as the Polyakov
and the Nambu action are in strings theory.

We consider the associativity (or WDVV) equations in the form they appear in
Seiberg-Witten theory and prove that they are covariant under generic
electric-magnetic duality transformations. We discuss the consequences of this
covariance from various perspectives.

Black p-brane solutions for a wide class of intersection rules and Ricci-flat
``internal'' spaces are considered. They are defined up to moduli functions H_s
obeying non-linear differential equations with certain boundary conditions
imposed. A new solution with intersections corresponding to the Lie algebra C_2
is obtained. The functions H_1 and H_2 for this solution are polynomials of
degree 3 and 4.

It is shown that the notion of W_\infty-algebra originally carried out over a
(compact) Riemann surface can be extended to n complex dimensional (compact)
manifolds within a symplectic geometrical setup. The relationships with the
Kodaira-Spencer deformation theory of complex structures are discussed.
Subsequently, some field theoretical aspects at the classical level are briefly
underlined.

A generalisation of existing SU(2) results is obtained. In particular, the
source-free Gauss law for SU(3)-valued gauge fields is solved using a
non-Abelian analogue of the Poincare lemma. When sources are present, the
colour-electric field is divided into two parts in a way similar to the Hodge
decomposition. Singularities due to coinciding eigenvalues of the
colour-magnetic field are also analysed.

It is shown that in the case of multicomponent integrable systems connected
with algebras $A_n$, the discrete transformation $T$ possesses the fine
structure and can be represented in the form $T=\prod T_i^{l_i}$, where $T_i$
are n commuting basis discrete transformations, and $l_i$ are arbitrary natural
numbers. All the calculations are conducted in detail for the case of a 3-wave
interacting system.

Precanonical quantization of pure Yang-Mills fields, which is based on the
covariant De Donder-Weyl (DW) Hamiltonian formalism, and its connection with
the functional Schrodinger representation in the temporal gauge are discussed.
The YM mass gap problem is related to a finite dimensional spectral problem for
a generalized Clifford-valued magnetic Schr\"odinger operator in the space of
gauge potentials which represents the DW Hamiltonian operator.

We use analytic and numerical methods to obtain the solution of the Q-ball
equation of motion. In particular, we show that the profile function of the
three-dimensional Q-ball can be accurately approximated by the symmetrized
Woods-Saxon distribution.

We construct the so-called theta vectors on noncommutative T^4, which
correspond to the theta functions on commutative tori with complex structures.
Following the method of Dieng and Schwarz, we first construct holomorphic
connections and then find the functions satisfying the holomorphic conditions,
the theta vectors. The holomorphic structure in the noncommutative T^4 case is
given by a 2x2 complex matrix, and the consistency requires its off-diagonal
elements to be the same. We also construct the tensor product of these
functions satisfying the consistency requirement.

Reducible representations of CAR and CCR are applied to second quantization
of Dirac and Maxwell fields. The resulting field operators are indeed operators
and not operator-valued distributions. Examples show that the formalism may
lead to a finite quantum field theory.

We consider a natural generalisation of the Laplace type operators for the
case of non-commutative (Moyal star) product. We demonstrate existence of a
power law asymptotic expansion for the heat kernel of such operators on T^n.
First four coefficients of this expansion are calculated explicitly. We also
find an analog of the UV/IR mixing phenomenon when analysing the localised heat
kernel.

We study the action of time dependent canonical and coordinate
transformations in phase space quantum mechanics. We extend the covariant
formulation of the theory by providing a formalism that is fully invariant
under both standard and time dependent coordinate transformations. This result
considerably enlarges the set of possible phase space representations of
quantum mechanics and makes it possible to construct a causal representation
for the distributional sector of Wigner quantum mechanics.

Using the group-theoretical approach to the inverse scattering method the
supersymmetric Korteweg-de Vries equation is obtained by application of the
Drinfeld-Sokolov reduction to osp(1|2) loop superalgebra. The direct and
inverse scattering problems are discussed for the corresponding Lax pair.

We analyse the problem of boundary conditions for the Poisson-Sigma model and
extend previous results showing that non-coisotropic branes are allowed. We
discuss the canonical reduction of a Poisson structure to a submanifold,
leading to a Poisson algebra that generalizes Dirac's construction. The phase
space of the model on the strip is related to the (generalized) Dirac bracket
on the branes through a dual pair structure.

After an introduction into the subject we show how one constructs a canonical
formalism in space-time noncommutative theories which allows to define the
notion of first-class constraints and to analyse gauge symmetries. We use this
formalism to perform a noncommutative deformation of two-dimensional string
gravity (also known as Witten black hole).

We prove that non-coisotropic branes in the Poisson-Sigma model are allowed
at the quantum level. When the brane is defined by second-class constraints,
the perturbative quantization of the model yields the Kontsevich's star product
associated to the Dirac bracket on the brane. We also discuss the quantization
when both first and second-class constraints are present.

Working in the $F$-basis provided by the factorizing $F$-matrix, the scalar
products of Bethe states for the supersymmetric t-J model are represented by
determinants. By means of these results, we obtain determinant representations
of correlation functions for the model.

We study domain-wall networks on the surface of q-stars in asymptotically
flat or anti de Sitter spacetime. We provide numerical solutions for the whole
phase space of the stable field configurations and find that the mass, radius
and particle number of the star is larger but the scalar field, responsible for
the formation of the soliton, acquires smaller values when a domain-wall
network is entrapped on the star surface.

By means of the Drinfeld twists, we derive the determinant representations of
the partition functions for the $gl(1|1)$ and $gl(2|1)$ supersymmetric vertex
models with domain wall boundary conditions. In the homogenous limit, these
determinants degenerate to simple functions.

Let $K$ be an $n$-dimensional symmetric convex body with $n \ge 4$ and let
$K\dual$ be its polar body. We present an elementary proof of the fact that
$$(\Vol K)(\Vol K\dual)\ge \frac{b_n^2}{(\log_2 n)^n},$$ where $b_n$ is the
volume of the Euclidean ball of radius 1. The inequality is asymptotically
weaker than the estimate of Bourgain and Milman, which replaces the $\log_2 n$
by a constant. However, there is no known elementary proof of the
Bourgain-Milman theorem.

The paper is a complement to the survey: M.I.Ostrovskii "To\-po\-lo\-gies on
the set of all subspaces of a Banach space and related questions of Banach
space geometry", Quaestiones Math. (to appear). It contains proofs of some
results on stability of properties of Banach spaces with respect to the
geometric opening stated in the survey without proofs.
  Some results of the present paper are of independent interest, in particular
the description of a predual property of the Banach--Saks property.

A discrete DJS-hypergroup is constructed in connection with the linearization
formula for the product of two spherical elements for a quantum Gelfand pair of
two compact quantum groups. A similar construction is discussed for the case of
a generalized quantum Gelfand pair, where the role of the quantum subgroup is
taken over by a two-sided coideal in the dual Hopf algebra. The paper starts
with a review of compact quantum groups, with an approach in terms of so-called
CQG algebras. The paper concludes with some examples of hypergroups thus
obtained.

This document is a practical guide to computations using an automatic
structure for the mapping class group of a once-punctured, oriented surface
$S$. We describe a quadratic time algorithm for the word problem in this group,
which can be implemented efficiently with pencil and paper. The input of the
algorithm is a word, consisting of ``chord diagrams'' of ideal triangulations
and elementary moves, which represents an element of the mapping class group.
The output is a word called a ``normal form'' that uniquely represents the same
group element.

We consider invariant hyperfunctions associated to automorphic forms on the
upper half plane. We give two interpretations of the period function of Maass
forms introduced by Lewis. The first interpretation shows that the period
function arises from the explicit description of a representative of the
hyperfunction associated to the Maass form. Under certain conditions,
automorphic forms determine cohomology classes in a cohomology group with
values in the hyperfunctions with bounded support on the line. A map from
hyperfunctions to holomorphic functions leads to a second, cohomological,
interpretation of the period function.

The statements of Main~Theorem~1.1 and Theorem~2.1 of the author's paper
[\emph{Trans.\ Amer.\ Math.\ Soc.}\ {\bf 345} (1994) 577--594] should assume
that $\Gamma $~is discrete and $G$~is connected. (Cors.~1.3, 5.6, and~5.8 are
affected similarly.) These restrictions can be removed if the conclusions of
the results are weakened to allow for the possible existence of transitive,
proper subgroups of~$G$. In this form, the results can be extended to the
setting where $G$ is a product of real and $p$-adic Lie groups.

We compute the number of perfect matchings of an $M\times N$ Aztec rectangle
where $|N-M|$ vertices have been removed along a line. A particular case solves
a problem posed by Propp. Our enumeration results follow from certain
identities for Schur functions, which are established by the combinatorics of
nonintersecting lattice paths.

It is known that there are infinitely many solutions to the inequality
\phi(30n+1)<\phi(30n), where \phi is the familiar Euler totient function.
However, there are no solutions with n<20,000,000, and computing a solution
would seem to involve factoring integers with hundreds of digits. In this note,
we describe how to get around the need to factor such large integers in
addressing inequalities of this type, and we explicitly compute the smallest
solution n of \phi(30n+1)<\phi(30n), a number with 1116 digits.

Every positive rational number has representations as Egyptian fractions
(sums of reciprocals of distinct positive integers) with arbitrarily many terms
and with arbitrarily large denominators. However, such representations normally
use a very sparse subset of the positive integers up to the largest
demoninator. We show that for every positive rational there exist Egyptian
fractions whose largest denominator is at most N and whose denominators form a
positive proportion of the integers up to N, for sufficiently large N;
furthermore, the proportion is within a small factor of best possible.

For certain nonlinear elliptic PDE problems in two dimensions, the classical
isoperimetric inequality produces a sharp inequality that violates a Pohozaev
identity except for radial symmetric, decreasing solutions. A generalized
version of this technique is used here to prove radial symmetry of curl-free
Ginzburg-Landau vortices.

We analyse the Gauss-Manin system of differential equations---and its Fourier
transform---attached to regular functions satisfying a tameness assupmption on
a smooth affine variety over C (e.g. tame polynomials on C^{n+1}). We give a
solution to the Birkhoff problem and prove Hodge-type results analogous to
those existing for germs of isolated hypersurface singularities.

The main result of this paper is the construction of ``good'' integral forms
for the universal enveloping algebras of the fake monster Lie algebra and the
Virasoro algebra. As an application we construct formal group laws over the
integers for these Lie algebras. We also prove a form of the no-ghost theorem
over the integers, and use this to verify an assumption used in the proof of
the modular moonshine conjectures.

We develop a theory of boundary functions for ideals in trivially analytic
subalgebras of simple AF C*-algebras with an injective 0-cocycle, a class which
includes all full nest algebras. Boundary functions are maps from the spectrum
of the diagonal of the analytic subalgebra to itself. The relation between
boundary functions and ideal sets is explored and a description is given of
meet and join irreducible boundary functions.

Let K be F_q((T)), or more generally any field of characteristic p equipped
with a valuation having a finite residue field of q elements. Then a polynomial
f(x) in K[x] having k+1 nonzero coefficients has at most q^k distinct zeros in
K. We also obtain the best possible bound for the number of zeros of degree at
most d over K.

Numerical optimization is used to construct new orthonormal compactly
supported wavelets with Sobolev regularity exponent as high as possible among
those mother wavelets with a fixed support length and a fixed number of
vanishing moments. The increased regularity is obtained by optimizing the
locations of the roots the scaling filter has on the interval (pi/2,\pi). The
results improve those obtained by I. Daubechies [Comm. Pure Appl. Math. 41
(1988), 909-996], H. Volkmer [SIAM J. Math. Anal. 26 (1995), 1075-1087], and P.
G. Lemarie-Rieusset and E. Zahrouni [Appl. Comput. Harmon. Anal. 5 (1998),
92-105].

We introduce a discrete deformation of Rieffel type for finite (quantum)
groups. Using this, we give a non-trivial example of a finite quantum group of
order 18. We also give a deformation of finite groups of Lie type by using
their maximal abelian subgroups.

We present a systematic study of the method of "norms on possibilities" of
building forcing notions with keeping their properties under full control. This
technique allows us to answer several open problems, but on our way to get the
solutions we develop various ideas interesting per se.These include a new
iterable condition for ``not adding Cohen reals'' (which has a flavour of
preserving special properties of p-points), new intriguing properties of
ultrafilters (weaker than being Ramsey but stronger than p-point) and some new
applications of variants of the PP--property.

Classification results are given for (i) compact quaternionic K\"ahler
manifolds with a cohomogeneity-one action of a semi-simple group, (ii) certain
complete hyperK\"ahler manifolds with a cohomogeneity-two action of a
semi-simple group preserving each complex structure, (iii) compact 3-Sasakian
manifolds which are cohomogeneity one with respect to a group of 3-Sasakian
symmetries. Information is also obtained about non-compact quaternionic
K\"ahler manifolds of cohomogeneity one and the cohomogeneity of adjoint orbits
in complex semi-simple Lie algebras.

We extend the notion of Novikov-Shubin invariant for free G-CW-complexes of
finite type to spaces with arbitrary G-actions and prove some statements about
their positivity. In particular we apply this to classifying spaces of discrete
groups.

Makeev conjectured that every constant-width body is inscribed in the dual
difference body of a regular simplex. We prove that homologically, there are an
odd number of such circumscribing bodies in dimension 3, and therefore
geometrically there is at least one. We show that the homological answer is
zero in higher dimensions, a result which is inconclusive for the geometric
question. We also give a partial generalization involving affine
circumscription of strictly convex bodies.

Let A be the coordinate ring of an affine elliptic curve (over an infinite
field k) of the form X-{p}, where X is projective and p is a closed point on X.
Denote by F the function field of X. We show that the image of H_*(GL_2(A),Z)
in H_*(GL_2(F),Z) coincides with the image of H_*(GL_2(k),Z). As a consequence,
we obtain numerous results about the K-theory of A and X. For example, if k is
a number field, we show that r_2(K_2> (A) x Q)=0, where r_m denotes the m-th
level of the rank filtration.

We construct examples of families of curves of genus 2 or 3 over Q whose
Jacobians split completely and have various large rational torsion subgroups.
For example, the rational points on a certain elliptic surface over P^1 of
positive rank parameterize a family of genus-2 curves over Q whose Jacobians
each have 128 rational torsion points. Also, we find the genus-3 curve
15625(X^4 + Y^4 + Z^4) - 96914(X^2 Y^2 + X^2 Z^2 + Y^2 Z^2) = 0, whose Jacobian
has 864 rational torsion points.
  This paper has appeared in Forum Math. 12 (2000) 315-364.

If B is C*-algebra of finite dimension n>3 then the finite dimensional
irreducible representations of the compact quantum automorphism group of B, say
G, have the same fusion rules as the ones of SO(3). As consequences, we get (1)
a structure result for G in the case where B is a matrix algebra (2) if n>4
then the dual of G is not amenable (3) the fixed point subfactor P^G\subset
(B\otimes P)^G has index n and principal graph A_\infty.

We further develop the finite length path generating transforms introduced
previously, and use them to obtain constant sign polynomial expressions that
reduce, in the limit of infinite path lengths, to parafermion and ABF Virasoro
characters. This provides us, in the ABF case, with combinatorial proofs of
Melzer's boson-fermion polynomial identities.

The purpose of this paper is to give a counterexample of Theorem 10.4 in
[Ann. of Math. 102 (1975), 223-290]. In the Harvey-Lawson paper, a global
result is claimed, but only a local result is proven. This theorem has had a
big impact on CR geometry for almost a quarter of a century because one can use
the theory of isolated singularities to study the theory of CR manifolds and
vice versa.

Any deformation of a Weyl or Clifford algebra can be realized through some
change of generators in the undeformed algebra. Here we briefly describe and
motivate our systematic procedure for constructing all such changes of
generators for those particular deformations where the original algebra is
covariant undersome Lie group and the deformed algebra is covariant under the
corresponding quantum group.

We consider $K_X$-negative extremal contractions $f\colon X\to (Z,o)$, where
$X$ is an algebraic threefold with only $\epsilon$-log terminal Q-factorial
singularities and $(Z,o)$ is a two (resp., one)-dimensional germ. The main
result is that $K_X$ is 1, 2, 3, 4 or 6-complementary or we have, so called,
exceptional case and then the singularity $(Z\in o)$ is bounded (resp., the
multiplicity of the central fiber $f^{-1}(o)$ is bounded).

The natural duality between "topological" and "regular," both considered as
convergence space properties, extends naturally to p-regular convergence
spaces, resulting in the new concept of a p-topological convergence space.
Taking advantage of this duality, the behavior of p-topological and p-regular
convergence spaces is explored, with particular emphasis on the former, since
they have not been previously studied. Their study leads to the new notion of a
neighborhood operator for filters, which in turn leads to an especially simple
characterization of a topology in terms of convergence criteria. Applications
include the topological and regularity series of a convergence space.

Lattices and Z-modules in Euclidean space possess an infinitude of subsets
that are images of the original set under similarity transformation. We
classify such self-similar images according to their indices for certain 4D
examples that are related to 4D root systems, both crystallographic and
non-crystallographic. We encapsulate their statistics in terms of Dirichlet
series generating functions and derive some of their asymptotic properties.

We explicitly calculate the fundamental group of the space $\mathcal F$ of
all immersed closed curves on a surface $F$. It is shown that $\pi_n(\mathcal
F)=0$, n>1 for $F\neq S^2, RP^2$. It is also proved that $\pi_2(\mathcal
F)=\Z$, and $\pi_n(\mathcal F)=\pi_n(S^2)\oplus\pi_{n+1}(S^2)$, n>2, for $F$
equal to $S^2$ or $RP^2$.

Suppose B is the unital algebra consisting of the algebraic product of full
matrix algebras over an index set X. A bijection is set up between the
equivalence classes of irreducible representations of B as operators on a
Banach space and the sigma-complete ultrafilters on X, Theorem 1. Therefore, if
X has less than measurable cardinality (e.g. accessible), the equivalence
classes of the irreducible representations of B are labeled by points of X, and
all representations of B are described, Theorem 3.

We construct and study various dual pairs between finite dimensional
classical Lie groups and infinite dimensional Lie algebras in some Fock
representations. The infinite dimensional Lie algebras here can be either a
completed infinite rank affine Lie algebra, the $\winf$ algebra or its certain
Lie subalgebras. We give a formulation in the framework of vertex algebras. We
also formulate several conjectures and open problems.

We establish a $q$-analog of our recent work on vertex representations and
the McKay correspondence. For each finite group $\Gamma$ we construct a Fock
space and associated vertex operators in terms of wreath products of
$\Gamma\times \mathbb C^{\times}$ and the symmetric groups.
  An important special case is obtained when $\Gamma$ is a finite subgroup of
$SU_2$, where our construction yields a group theoretic realization of the
representations of the quantum affine and quantum toroidal algebras of $ADE$
type.

There is a gap in the proof of Lemma VII.4 in [Ann. of Math. (2) 145 (1997),
81--137]. We present an alternative proof of Theorem B (C^1 Omega-stable vector
fields satisfy Axiom A). The novel and essential part in the proof of the
stability and Omega-stability conjectures for flows is the connecting lemma
introduced previously. A mistake in the proof of the last conjecture was
pointed out to me by Toyoshiba, who later also provided an independent proof of
it, again based on the connecting lemma and previous arguments by Ma\~n\'e and
Palis.

We explore the role played by the spectral curves associated with Higgs pairs
in the context of the Nahm transform of doubly-periodic instantons defined in
"Construction of doubly-periodic instantons" (math.DG/9909069) and "Nahm
transform for doubly-periodic instantons" (math.DG/9910120). More precisely, we
show how to construct a triple consisting of an algebraic curve plus a line
bundle with connection over it from a doubly-periodic instanton, and that these
coincide with the Hitchin's spectral data associated with the Nahm transformed
Higgs bundle.

We study the tensor product of principal unitary representations of the
quantum Lorentz group, prove a decomposition theorem and compute the associated
intertwiners. We show that these intertwiners can be expressed in terms of
complex continuations of 6j symbols of U_q(su(2)). These intertwiners are
expressed in terms of q-Racah polynomials and Askey-Wilson polynomials. The
orthogonality of these intertwiners imply some relation mixing these two
families of polynomials. The simplest of these relations is the orthogonality
of Askey-Wilson polynomials.

Working over a perfect field, I classify normal del Pezzo surfaces with base
number one that contain a nonrational singularity. They form a huge infinite
hierarchy; contractions of ruled surfaces lie on top of it. Descending the
hierarchy hinges on a generalized version of elementary transformations. As an
application, I determine the structure of 2-dimensional anticanonical models
for arbitrary normal surfaces.

We extend the results on the uniform convergence of Bieberbach polynomials to
domains with certain interior zero angles (outward pointing cusps), and show
that they play a special role in the problem. Namely, we construct a
Keldysh-type example on the divergence of Bieberbach polynomials at an outward
pointing cusp and discuss the critical order of tangency at this interior zero
angle, separating the convergent behavior of Bieberbach polynomials from the
divergent one for sufficiently thin cusps.

Let $p(z)$ be a monic polynomial of degree $n$, with complex coefficients,
and let $q(z)$ be its monic factor. We prove an asymptotically sharp inequality
of the form $\|q\|_{E} \le C^n \|p\|_E$, where $\|\cdot\|_E$ denotes the sup
norm on a compact set $E$ in the plane. The best constant $C_E$ in this
inequality is found by potential theoretic methods. We also consider
applications of the general result to the cases of a disk and a segment.

A line bundle with a base-point-free multiple is called semiample. I give a
cohomological characterization of semiample line bundles. The result is a
common generalization of the Fujita-Zariski criterion for semiampleness and the
Grothendieck-Serre characterization of ampleness. Applying the Fujita-Zariski
Theorem, I characterize contractible curves in 1-dimensional families.

Let F be a local net of von Neumann algebras in four spacetime dimensions
satisfying certain natural structural assumptions. We prove that if F has
trivial superselection structure then every covariant, Haag-dual subsystem B is
the fixed point net under a compact group action on one component in a suitable
tensor product decomposition of F. Then we discuss some application of our
result, including free field models and certain theories with at most countably
many sectors.

In this paper branching rules for the fundamental representations of the
symplectic groups in positive characteristic are found. The submodule structure
of the restrictions of the fundamental modules for the group $Sp_{2n}(K)$ to
the naturally embedded subgroup $Sp_{2n-2}(K)$ is determined. As a corollary,
inductive systems of fundamental representations for $Sp_{\infty}(K)$ are
classified. The submodule structure of the fundamental Weyl modules is refined.

This paper deals with the analytic continuation of holomorphic automorphic
forms on a Lie group $G$. We prove that for any discrete subgroup $\Gamma$ of
$G$ there always exists a non-trivial holomorphic automorphic form, i.e., there
exists a $\Gamma$-spherical unitary highest weight representation of $G$.
Holomorphic automorphic forms have the property that they analytically extend
to holomorphic functions on a complex Ol'shanski\u\i{} semigroup $S\subeq
G_\C$. As an application we prove that the bounded holomorphic functions on
$\Gamma\bs S\subseteq \Gamma\bs G_\C$ separate the points.

Let $(X,\Delta)$ be a 4-dimensional log variety which is proper over the
field of complex numbers and with only divisorial log terminal singularities.
The log canonical divisor $K_X+\Delta$ is semi-ample, if it is nef (numerically
effective) and the Iitaka dimension $\kappa(X,K_X+\Delta)$ is strictly
positive. For the proof, we use Fujino's abundance theorem for semi log
canonical threefolds.

It is shown that when q is a primitive root of unity of order not equal to 2
mod 4, A(SL_q(2)) is a free module of finite rank over the coordinate ring of
the classical group SL(2). An explicit set of generators is provided.

We construct polynomial approximations of Dzjadyk type (in terms of the k-th
modulus of continuity, $k \ge 1$) for analytic functions defined on a continuum
E in the complex plane, which simultaneously interpolate at given points of E.
Furthermore, the error in this approximation is decaying as $e^{-cn^\alpha}$
strictly inside E, where c and $\alpha$ are positive constants independent of
the degree n of the approximating polynomial.

Generalizing cones over projective toric varieties, we present arbitrary
toric varieties as quotients of quasiaffine toric varieties. Such quotient
presentations correspond to groups of Weil divisors generating the topology.
Groups comprising Cartier divisors define free quotients, whereas $\QQ$-Cartier
divisors define geometric quotients. Each quotient presentation yields
homogeneous coordinates. Using homogeneous coordinates, we express
quasicoherent sheaves in terms of multigraded modules and describe the set of
morphisms into a toric variety.

We characterize embeddability of algebraic varieties into smooth toric
varieties and prevarieties. Our embedding results hold also in an equivariant
context and thus generalize a well known embedding theorem of Sumihiro on
quasiprojective G-varieties. The main idea is to reduce the embedding problem
to the affine case. This is done by constructing equivariant affine conoids, a
tool which extends the concept of an equivariant affine cone over a projective
G-variety to a more general framework.

The two-parametric quantum superalgebra $U_{p,q}[gl(2/2)]$ and its induced
representations are considered. A method for constructing all
finite-dimensional irreducible representations of this quantum superalgebra is
also described in detail. It turns out that finite-dimensional representations
of the two-parametric $U_{p,q}[gl(2/2)]$, even at generic deformation
parameters, are not simply trivial deformations from those of the classical
superalgebra $gl(2/2)$, unlike the one-parametric cases.

As was recently pointed out by McMullen and Taubes [Math. Res. Lett. 6 (1999)
681-696], there are 4-manifolds for which the diffeomorphism group does not act
transitively on the deformation classes of orientation-compatible symplectic
structures. This note points out some other 4-manifolds with this property
which arise as the orientation-reversed versions of certain complex surfaces
constructed by Kodaira [J. Analyse Math. 19 (1967) 207-215]. While this
construction is arguably simpler than that of McMullen and Taubes, its
simplicity comes at a price: the examples exhibited herein all have large
fundamental groups.

The main result is that every complete finite area hyperbolic metric on a
sphere with punctures can be uniquely realized as the induced metric on the
surface of a convex ideal polyhedron in hyperbolic 3-space. A number of other
observations are included.

Let $X$ be a Banach space. We introduce a formal approach which seems to be
useful in the study of those properties of operators on $X$ which depend only
on the norms of images of elements. This approach is applied to the Daugavet
equation for norms of operators; in particular we develop a general theory of
narrow operators and rich subspaces of $X$ previously studied in the context of
the classical spaces $C(K)$ and $L_1(\mu)$.

This paper gives a new proof of a result of Geoff Mess that the linear
holonomy group of a complete flat Lorentz 3-manifold cannot be cocompact in
SO(2,1). The proof uses a signed marked Lorentzian length-spectrum invariant
developed by G.Margulis, reinterpreted in terms of deformations of hyperbolic
surfaces.

We show the equivalence of two kinds of strict multiple category, namely the
well known globular omega-categories, and the cubical omega-categories with
connections.

We present our recent understanding on resolutions of Gorenstein orbifolds,
which involves the finite group representation theory. We shall concern only
the quotient singularity of hypersurface type. The abelian group $A_r(n)$ for
$A$-type hypersurface quotient singularity of dimension $n$ is introduced. For
$n=4$, the structure of Hilbert scheme of group orbits and crepant resolutions
of $A_r(4)$-singularity are obtained. The flop procedure of 4-folds is
explicitly constructed through the process.

This paper gives some further details of proofs of some theorems related to
the quantum dynamical Yang-Baxter equation. This mainly expands proofs given in
"Lectures on the dynamical Yang-Baxter equation" by P. Etingof and O.
Schiffmann, math.QA/9908064. This concerns the intertwining operator, the
fusion matrix, the exchange matrix and the difference operators. The last part
expands proofs given in "Traces of intertwiners for quantum groups and
difference equations, I" by P. Etingof and A. Varchenko, math.QA/9907181. This
concerns the dual Macdonald-Ruijsenaars equations. This paper does not claim
originality, priority or completeness. It is meant as a service to whoever may
take profit of it.

Given a tame Galois branched cover of curves pi: X -> Y with any finite
Galois group G whose representations are rational, we compute the dimension of
the (generalized) Prym variety corresponding to any irreducible representation
\rho of G. This formula can be applied to the study of algebraic integrable
systems using Lax pairs, in particular systems associated with Seiberg-Witten
theory. However, the formula is much more general and its computation and proof
are entirely algebraic.

In this paper we show that for a large class C of 4-manifolds each member of
C has only finitely many simple homotopy type upto s-cobordism. This result
generalizes a similar result of Hillman for certain complex surfaces. We also
present a correction in the proof of Hillman's result.

We establish a new Howe duality between a pair of two queer Lie superalgebras
(q(m),q(n)). This gives a representation theoretic interpretation of a
well-known combinatorial identity for Schur Q-functions. We further establish
the equivalence between this new Howe duality and the Schur-Sergeev duality
between q(n) and a central extension $\Hy_k$ of the hyperoctahedral group H_k.
We show that the zero-weight space of a q(n)-module with highest weight
$\lambda$ given by a strict partition of n is an irreducible module over the
finite group $\Hy_n$ parameterized by $\lambda$. We also discuss some
consequences of this Howe duality.

Smooth surfaces have finitely generated canonical rings and projective
canonical models. For normal surfaces, however, the graded ring of
multicanonical sections is possibly nonnoetherian, such that the corresponding
homogeneous spectrum is noncompact. I construct a canonical compactification by
adding finitely many non-Q-Gorenstein points at infinity, provided that each
Weil divisor is numerically equivalent to a Q-Cartier divisor. Similar results
hold for arbitrary Weil divisors instead of the canonical class.

This paper is an introduction to the use of the cobordism of chain complexes
with Poincar\'e duality in surgery theory. It is a companion to the author's
paper "An introduction to algebraic surgery" math.AT/0008071 (to appear in
Volume 2 of Surveys in Surgery Theory, Ann. of Maths. Studies, Princeton, 2001)
which is an introduction to algebraic surgery using forms and formations.

The paper introduces the notion of h-normal \Gamma-linear connection \nabla
on 1-jet fibre bundle J^1(T,M), and studies its local d-torsions and
d-curvatures togheter with theirs Bianchi identities. Also, it presents the
important deflection d-tensors identities attached to \nabla.

Using vertex algebra techniques, we determine a set of generators for the
cohomology ring of the Hilbert schemes of points on an arbitrary smooth
projective surface over the field of complex numbers.

The elaboration of new quantization methods has recently developed the
interest in the study of subalgebras of the Lie algebra of polynomial vector
fields over a Euclidean space. In this framework, these subalgebras define
maximal equivariance conditions that one can impose on a linear bijection
between observables that are polynomial in the momenta and differential
operators.Here, we determine which finite dimensional graded Lie subalgebras
are maximal. In order to characterize these, we make use of results of
Guillemin, Singer and Sternberg and Kobayashi and Nagano.

This paper analyzes in details the Batalin-Vilkovisky quantization procedure
for BF theories on n-dimensional manifolds and describes a suitable
superformalism to deal with the master equation and the search of observables.
In particular, generalized Wilson loops for BF theories with additional
polynomial B-interactions are discussed in any dimensions. The paper also
contains the explicit proofs to the Theorems stated in math.QA/0003073.

Using the existence of certain symplectic submanifolds in symplectic
4-manifolds, we prove an estimate from above for the number of singular fibers
with separating vanishing cycles in minimal Lefschetz fibrations over surfaces
of positive genus. This estimate is then used to deduce that mapping class
groups are not uniformly perfect, and that the map from their second bounded
cohomology to ordinary cohomology is not injective.

Neumann and Reid described in their paper "Rigidity of cusps in deformations
of hyperbolic 3-orbifolds" (Math Ann. 295 (1993) no. 2, 223--237) a 2-cusped
hyperbolic 3-orbifold in which the cusps are geometrically isolated. Based on
numerical evidence provided by Jeff Weeks' snappea program, they conjectured
that the cusps are strongly geometrically isolated, a fact which we establish
here. We also give a parameterization of the Dehn surgery space of this
orbifold which has amusing properties.

Duality between the coloured quantum group and the coloured quantum algebra
corresponding to GL(2) is established. The coloured L^{\pm} functionals are
constructed and the dual algebra is derived explicitly. These functionals are
then employed to give a coloured generalisation of the differential calculus on
quantum GL(2) within the framework of the R-matrix approach.

We find tight estimates for the minimum number of proper subspaces needed to
cover all lattice points in an n-dimensional convex body symmetric about the
origin. We also find the order of magnitude of the number of (n-1)-dimensional
subspaces induced by the lattice points in a large n-dimensional ball centered
at the origin.

Methods of Lie group analysis of differential equations are extended to weak
solutions of (linear and nonlinear) PDEs, where the term ``weak solution''
comprises the following settings:
  (a) Distributional solutions. (b) Solutions in generalized function algebras.
(c) Solutions in the sense of association (corresponding to a number of weak or
integral solution concepts in classical analysis).
  Factorization properties and infinitesimal criteria are developed that allow
to treat all three settings simultaneously, thereby unifying and extending
previous work in this area.

A covariant functor from the category of generic complex algebraic curves to
a category of the AF-algebras is constructed. The construction is based on a
representation of the Teichmueller space of a curve by the measured foliations
due to Douady, Hubbard, Masur and Thurston. The functor maps isomorphic
algebraic curves to the stably isomorphic AF-algebras.

We present several results on the number of irrational and linear independent
values among $\zeta(s),\zeta(s+2),...,\zeta(s+2n)$, where $s>2$ is an odd
integer and $n>0$ is an integer. The main tool in our proofs is a certain
generalization of Rivoal's construction (math.NT/0008051, math.NT/0104221).

We construct a formal connection on the Aomoto complex of an arrangement of
hyperplanes, and use it to study the Gauss-Manin connection for the moduli
space of the arrangement in the cohomology of a complex rank one local system.
We prove that the eigenvalues of the Gauss-Manin connection are integral linear
combinations of the weights which define the local system.

We show that there are 3 \cdot 2^(n-1) complex common tangent lines to 2n-2
general spheres in R^n and that there is a choice of spheres with all common
tangents real.

We prove that every closed, connected contact 3-manifold can be obtained from
the 3-sphere with its standard contact structure by contact surgery of
coefficient plus or minus 1 along a Legendrian link. As a corollary, we derive
a result of Etnyre and Honda about symplectic cobordisms (in slightly stronger
form).

We establish some remarkable properties of the cohomology rings of the
Hilbert schemes of n points on a projective surface X, from which one sees to
what extent these cohomology rings are (in)dependent of X and n.

In this paper, we discuss some applications of Givental's differential
equations to enumerative problems on rational curves in projective
hypersurfaces. Using this method, we prove some of the conjectures on the
structure constants of quantum cohomology of projective hypersurfaces, proposed
in our previous article. Moreover, we clarify the correspondence between the
virtual structure constants and Givental's differential equations when the
projective hypersurface is Calabi-Yau or general type.

Consider the tesselation of the hyperbolic plane by m-gons, l per vertex. In
its 1-skeleton, we compute the growth series of vertices, geodesics, tuples of
geodesics with common extremities. We also introduce and enumerate "holly
trees", a family of reduced loops in these graphs. We then apply Grigorchuk's
result relating cogrowth and random walks to obtain lower estimates on the
spectral radius of the Markov operator associated with a symmetric random walk
on these graphs.

Let $(M,g)$ be a pseudo-Riemannian manifold. We propose a new approach for
defining the conformal Schwarzian derivatives. These derivatives are 1-cocycles
on the group of diffeomorphisms of $M$ related to the modules of linear
differential operators. As operators, these derivatives do not depend on the
rescaling of the metric $g.$ In particular, if the manifold $(M,g)$ is
conformally flat, these derivatives vanish on the conformal group
$\Og(p+1,q+1),$ where $\mathrm{dim} (M)=p+q.$ This work is a continuation of
[1,4] where the Schwarzian derivative was defined on a manifold endowed with a
projective connection.

We study the asymptotic of the spectrum of the \spin Dirac operator on high
tensor powers of a line bundle. As application, we get a simple proof of the
main result of Guillemin-Uribe, which was originally proved by using the
analysis of Toeplitz operators of Boutet de Monvel and Guillemin.

We give a brief account of a construction called tokens here, which is
significant in algebra, analysis, combinatorics, and physics. Tokens allow to
express a semigroup on one set via a semigroup convolution on another set.
Therefore tokens are similar to intertwining operators but are more flexible.
  Keywords: semigroups, hypergroups, tokens, poset, multiplicative functions,
polynomial sequence of binomial type, integral kernel, wavelets, refinement
equation, special functions, quantum propagator, path integral, quantum
computing.

In this article I show that every special Lagrangian cone in C^3 determines,
and is determined by, a primitive harmonic surface in the 6-symmetric space
SU_3/SO_2. For cones over tori, this allows us to use the classification theory
of harmonic tori to describe the construction of all the corresponding special
Lagrangian cones. A parameter count is given for the space of these, and some
examples found recently by Joyce are put into this context.

We describe a new method of constructing Kobayashi-hyperbolic surfaces in
complex projective 3-space based on deforming surfaces with a "hyperbolic
non-percolation" property. We use this method to show that general small
deformations of certain singular abelian surfaces of degree 8 are hyperbolic.
We also show that a union of 15 planes in general position in projective
3-space admits hyperbolic deformations.

Using Moriwaki's calculation of the Q-Picard group for the moduli space of
curves, I prove the strong Franchetta Conjecture in all characteristics. That
is, the canonical class generates the group of rational points on the Picard
scheme for the generic curve of genus g>2. Similar results hold for generic
pointed curves. Moreover, I show that Hilbert's Irreducibility Theorem implies
that there are many other nonclosed points in the moduli space of curves with
such properties.

We prove upper bounds for the number of critical points in semistable
symplectic Lefschetz fibrations. We also obtain a new lower bound for the
number of nonseparting vanishing cycles in Lefschetz pencils, and reprove the
known lower bounds for the commutator lengths of Dehn twists.

We investigate the geometry of the Simpson moduli space M of stable sheaves
on P_3 with Hilbert polynomial H(m)=3m+1 and describe explicitly the two
smooth, rational components, their 11-dimensional smooth, transversal
intersection and the relation between M and the Hilbert scheme Hilb_H(P_3) of
cubic space curves. We also compute the Betti numbers of the Chow groups of the
moduli space M.

In 1978, Apery has given sequences of rational approximations to $\zeta(2)$
and $\zeta(3)$ yielding the irrationality of each of these numbers. One of the
key ingredient of Apery's proof are second-order difference equations with
polynomial coefficients satisfied by numerators and denominators of the above
approximations. Recently, a similar second-order difference equation for
$\zeta(4)$ has been discovered. The note contains a possible generalization of
the above results for the number $\zeta(5)$.

We exhibit a direct correspondence between the potential defining the H^{1,1}
small quantum module structure on the cohomology of a Calabi-Yau manifold and
the asymptotic data of the A-model variation of Hodge structure. This is done
in the abstract context of polarized variations of Hodge structure and
Frobenius modules.

We introduce a homology theory whose Euler characteristics counts ASD bundles
over four dimensional co-associative submanifolds in (almost) G_2 manifolds.
  As a TQFT, in relative situations, we have the Fukaya-Floer category of
Lagrangians intersection in the moduli space of special Lagrangian submanifolds
in CY threefolds.

We make a fine study of the SO(2,C)-double coset decomposition in SL(2,C) and
give a full description of the intersection of the various cells with the
complex crown Xi of SL(2,R)/SO(2). A non-linear convexity theorem is proved and
applications to analytically continued spherical functions are given.

We give another proof for a result of Brick stating that the simple
connectivity at infinity is a geometric property of finitely presented groups.
This allows us to define the rate of vanishing of $\p1i$ for those groups which
are simply connected at infinity. Further we show that this rate is linear for
cocompact lattices in nilpotent and semi-simple Lie groups, and in particular
for fundamental groups of geometric 3-manifolds.

Spaces in the genus of infinite quaternionic projective space which admit
essential maps from infinite complex projective space are classified. In these
cases the sets of homotopy classes of maps are described explicitly. These
results strengthen the classical theorem of McGibbon and Rector on maximal
torus admissibility for spaces in the genus of infinite quaternionic projective
space. An interpretation of these results in the context of Adams-Wilkerson
embedding in integral $K$-theory is also given.

Demushkin's Theorem says that any two toric structures on an affine variety X
are conjugate in the automorphism group of X. We provide the following
extension: Let an (n-1)-dimensional torus T act effectively on an n-dimensional
affine toric variety X. Then T is conjugate in the automorphism group of X to a
subtorus of the big torus of X.

In this article we investigate algebraic morphisms between toric varieties.
Given presentations of toric varieties as quotients we are interested in the
question when a morphism admits a lifting to these quotient presentations. We
show that this can be completely answered in terms of invariant divisors. As an
application we prove that two toric varieties, which are isomorphic as abstract
algebraic varieties, are even isomorphic as toric varieties. This generalizes a
well-known result of Demushkin on affine toric varieties.

In these notes, we consider self-maps of degree > 1 on a weak del Pezzo
surface X of degree < 8. We show that there are exactly 12 such X, modulo
isomorphism. In particular, K_X^2 > 2, and if X has one self-map of degree > 1
then for every positive integer d there is a self-map of degree d^2 on X. We
prove the Sato conjecture in the present case, the general case of which has
been proved by N. Nakayama.

We show that the pseudoconcave holes of some naturally arising class of
manifolds, called hyperconcave ends, can be filled in, including the case of
complex dimension 2 . As a consequence we obtain a stronger version of the
compactification theorem of Siu-Yau and extend Nadel's theorems to dimension 2.

We study the asymptotic behaviour of solutions to semi-classical nonlinear
Schrodinger equations with a potential, for concentrating and oscillating
initial data, when the nonlinearity is repulsive and the potential is a
polynomial of degree at most two. We describe the separate roles of the
nonlinearity and of the potential, with tools which seem to be specific to the
class of potentials that we consider. We also discuss the case of more general
subquadratic potentials.

The "noncommutative geometry" of complex algebraic curves is studied. As
first step, we clarify a morphism between elliptic curves, or complex tori, and
C*-algebras T_t={u,v | vu=exp(2\pi it)uv}, or noncommutative tori. The main
result says that under the morphism isomorphic elliptic curves map to the
Morita equivalent noncommutative tori. Our approach is based on the rigidity of
the length spectra of Riemann surfaces.

Let T be a torus. We show that Koszul duality can be used to compute the
equivariant cohomology of topological T-spaces as well as the cohomology of
pull backs of the universal T-bundle. The new features are that no further
assumptions about the spaces are made and that the coefficient ring may be
arbitrary. This gives in particular a Cartan-type model for the equivariant
cohomology of a T-space with arbitrary coefficients. Our method works for
intersection homology as well.

Given an action of a reductive group on a normal variety, we construct all
invariant open subsets admitting a good quotient with a quasiprojective or a
divisorial quotient space. Our approach extends known constructions like
Mumford's Geometric Invariant Theory. We obtain several new Hilbert-Mumford
type theorems, and we extend a projectivity criterion of Bialynicki-Birula and
Swiecicka for varieties with semisimple group action from the smooth to the
singular case.

We consider a system of N phase oscillators having randomly distributed
natural frequencies and diagonalizable interactions among the oscillators. We
show that in the limit of N going to infinity, all solutions of such a system
are incoherent with probability one for any strength of coupling, which implies
that there is no sharp transition from incoherence to coherence as the coupling
strength is increased, in striking contrast to Kuramoto's (special) oscillator
system.

In a flat 2-torus with a disk of diameter $r$ removed, let $\Phi_r(t)$ be the
distribution of free-path lengths (the probability that a segment of length
larger than $t$ with uniformly distributed origin and direction does not meet
the disk).
  We prove that $\Phi_r(t/r)$ behaves like $\frac{2}{\pi^2 t}$ for each $t>2$
and in the limit as $r\to 0^+$, in some appropriate sense.
  We then discuss the implications of this result in the context of kinetic
theory.

We generalize Sunada's method to produce new examples of closed, locally
non-isometric manifolds which are isospectral. In particular, we produce pairs
of isospectral, simply-connected, locally non-isometric normal homogeneous
spaces. These pairs also allow us to see that in general group actions with
discrete spectra are not determined up to measurable conjugacy by their
spectra. In particular, we show this for lattice actions.

Given a pair of dynamical systems we consider a pair of commuting von Neumann
factors of type 11_1. The construction is a generalization of classical von
Neumann-Murrey and grouppoid construction. It gives a natural examples of
factors with non-unit coupling constant.As the partial cases we obtain
Connes-Riffel-Faddeev examples of the representations of rotation algebra. We
give also an example for infinite symmetric group.

The survey is devoted to associative $\Z_{\ge0}$-graded algebras presented by
n generators and n(n-1)/2 quadratic relations and satisfying the so-called
Poincare-Birkhoff-Witt condition (PBW-algebras). We consider examples of such
algebras depending on two continuous parameters (namely, on an elliptic curve
and a point on this curve) which are flat deformations of the polynomial ring
in n variables. Diverse properties of these algebras are described, together
with their relations to integrable systems, deformation quantization, moduli
spaces and other directions of modern investigations.

A hypergeometric identity equating a triple sum to a single sum, originally
found by Gelfand, Graev and Retakh [Russian Math. Surveys 47 (1992), 1-88] by
using systems of differential equations, is given hypergeometric proofs. As a
bonus, several $q$-analogues can be derived.

We prove a vanishing theorem of the cohomology arising from the two Quantized
Drinfeld-Sokolov reductions (``+'' and ``-'' reduction) introduced by
Feigin-Frenkel and Frenkel-Kac-Wakimoto. As a consequence, the vanishing
conjecture of Frenkel-Kac-Wakimoto is proved for the ``-'' reduction and
partially for the ``+'' reduction.

The space of local operators in the SU(2) invariant Thirring model (SU(2)
ITM) is studied by the form factor bootstrap method. By constructing sets of
form factors explicitly we define a susbspace of operators which has the same
character as the level one integrable highest weight representation of
\hat{sl_2}. This makes a correspondence between this subspace and the chiral
space of local operators in the underlying conformal field theory, the su(2)
Wess-Zumino-Witten model at level one.

There are several ways of a construction of a boundary of a symmetric space
using pencils of geodesics: the Karpelevich boundary, the visibility boundary,
the associahedral boundary, and the sea urchin. We give explicit descriptions
of these boundaries. We obtain some moduli space like polyhedra as sections of
these compactifications by Cartan subspaces. For simplicity, we consider only
the space $GL_n/O_n$ of ellipsoids in $R^n$.

We formulate Lehmer's Problem about the Mahler measure of polynomials for
general compact abelian groups, introducing a Lehmer constant for each such
group. We show that all nontrivial connected compact groups have the same
Lehmer constant, and conjecture the value of the Lehmer constant for finite
cyclic groups. We also show that if a group has infinitely many connected
components then its Lehmer constant vanishes.

We prove that action of a semigroup T on compact metric space X by continuous
selfmaps is strongly proximal if and only if T action on P(X), the space of
probability measures on $X$ with weak topology, is strongly proximal. As a
consequence we prove that affine actions on certain compact convex subsets of
finite-dimensional vector spaces are strongly proximal if and only if the
action is proximal.

We study isomorphism classes of symplectic dual pairs P <- S -> P-, where P
is an integrable Poisson manifold, S is symplectic, and the two maps are
complete, surjective Poisson submersions with connected and simply-connected
fibres. For fixed P, these Morita self-equivalences of P form a group Pic(P)
under a natural ``tensor product'' operation. We discuss this group in several
examples and study variants of this construction for rings (the origin of the
notion of Picard group), Lie groupoids, and symplectic groupoids.

We show that on conformal manifolds of even dimension $n\geq 4$ there is no
conformally invariant natural differential operator between density bundles
with leading part a power of the Laplacian $\Delta^{k}$ for $k>n/2$. This shows
that a large class of invariant operators on conformally flat manifolds do not
generalise to arbitrarily curved manifolds and that the theorem of Graham,
Jenne, Mason and Sparling, asserting the existence of curved version of
$\Delta^k$ for $1\le k\le n/2$, is sharp.

Let f be an orientation-preserving homeomorphism of the disk D, P a finite
invariant subset and [f] the isotopy class of f in D\P. We give a non trivial
lower bound of the topological entropy for maps in [f], using the spectral
radius of some specializations in GL(n,C) of the Burau matrix associated with
[f] and we discuss some examples.

Building on a classical solution to the pentagon equation, constructed
earlier by the author and E.V. Martyushev and related to the flat geometry
invariant under the group SL(2), we construct an algebraic complex
corresponding to a triangulation of a three-manifold. In case if this complex
is acyclic (which is confirmed by examples), we use it for constructing a
manifold invariant .

Using multiple q-integrals and a determinant evaluation, we establish a
multivariable extension of Bailey's nonterminating 10-phi-9 transformation.
  From this result, we deduce new multivariable terminating 10-phi-9
transformations, 8-phi-7 summations and other identities. We also use similar
methods to derive new multivariable 1-psi-1 summations. Some of our results are
extended to the case of elliptic hypergeometric series.

We prove some inequalities for the spectral radius of positive operators on
Banach function spaces. In particular, we show the following extension of
Levinger's theorem. Let $K$ be a positive compact kernel operator on
$L^2(X,\mu)$ with the spectral radius $r(K)$. Then the function $\phi$ defined
by $\phi(t) = r(t K + (1-t) K^*)$ is non-decreasing on $[0, {1/2}]$. We also
prove that $\| A + B^* \| \ge 2 \cdot \sqrt{r(A B)}$ for any positive operators
$A$ and $B$ on $L^2(X,\mu)$.

We show that for complex analytic K3 surfaces any torsion class in
H^2(X,O_X^*) comes from an Azumaya algebra. In other words, the Brauer group
equals the cohomological Brauer group. For algebraic surfaces, such results go
back to Grothendieck. In our situation, we use twistor spaces to deform a given
analytic K3 surface to suitable projective K3 surfaces, and then stable bundles
and hyperholomorphy conditions to pass back and forth between the members of
the twistor family.

We study the local topological zeta function associated to a complex function
that is holomorphic at the origin of C^2 (respectively C^3). We determine all
possible poles less than -1/2 (respectively -1). On C^2 our result is a
generalization of the fact that the log canonical threshold is never in
]5/6,1[. Similar statements are true for the motivic zeta function.

We give complete classification of C^2-regular and non-degenerate
projectively Anosov flows on three dimensional manifolds. More precisely, we
prove that such a flow on a connected manifold must be either an Anosov flow or
represented as a finite union of $T^2 \times [0,1]$-models.

The cobordism invariance of the index on closed manifolds is reproved using
the calculus of cusp pseudodifferential operators on a manifold with boundary.
More generally, on a compact manifold with corners, the existence of a
symmetric cusp differential operator of order 1 and of Dirac type near the
boundary implies that the sum of the indices of the induced operators on the
hyperfaces is null.

We prove an identity about partitions involving new combinatorial
coefficients. The proof given is using a generating function. As an application
we obtain the explicit expression of two shifted symmetric functions, related
with Jack polynomials. These quantities are the moments of the "alpha-content"
random variable with respect to some transition probability distributions.

We provide a complete description of normal affine varieties with effective
algebraic torus action in terms of what we call proper polyhedral divisors on
semiprojective varieties. Our theory extends classical cone constructions of
Dolgachev, Demazure and Pinkham to the multigraded case, and it comprises the
theory of affine toric varieties.

We prove surjectivity criteria for $p$-adic representations and we apply them
to abelian varieties over number fields. In particular, we provide examples of
Jacobians over $\dbQ$ of dimension $d\in\{1,2,3\}$ whose 2-adic representations
have as images $GSp_{2d}(\dbZ_2)$.

We prove the existence of complexified real arrangements with the same
combinatorics but different embeddings in the complex projective plane. Such
pair of arrangements has an additional property: they admit conjugated
equations on the ring of polynomials over the number field ${\mathbb
Q}(\sqrt{5})$.

We give a brief survey of many of the high-lights of our present
understanding of the young subject of quantum metric spaces, and of quantum
Gromov-Hausdorff distance between them. We include examples.

We study quadratic forms that can occur as trace forms of Galois field
extensions L/K, under the assumption that K contains a primitive 4th root of
unity. M. Epkenhans conjectured that any such form is a scaled Pfister form. We
prove this conjecture and classify the finite groups G which admit a G-Galois
extension L/K with a non-hyperbolic trace form. We also give several
applications of these results.

In this letter we present the set of invariant difference equations and
meshes which preserve the Lie group symmetries of the equation
u_{t}=(K(u)u_{x})_{x}+Q(u). All special cases of K(u) and Q(u) that extend the
symmetry group admitted by the differential equation are considered. This paper
completes the paper [J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 30, no. 23 (1997) 8139-8155], where
a few invariant models for heat transfer equations were presented.

By using the theory of vertex operator algebras, we gave a new proof of the
famous Ramanujan's modulus 5 modular equation from his "Lost Notebook" (p.139
in \cite{R}). Furthermore, we obtained an infinite list of $q$-identities for
all odd moduli; thus, we generalized the result of Ramanujan.

We give new equations that axiomatize the variety of trimedial quasigroups.
We also improve a standard characterization by showing that right semimedial,
left F-quasigroups are trimedial.

Holomorphic almost modular forms are holomorphic functions of the complex
upper half plane which can be approximated arbitrarily well (in a suitable
sense) by modular forms of congruence subgroups of large index in $\SL(2,\ZZ)$.
It is proved that such functions have a rotation-invariant limit distribution
when the argument approaches the real axis. An example for a holomorphic almost
modular form is the logarithm of $\prod_{n=1}^\infty (1-\exp(2\pi\i n^2 z))$.
The paper is motivated by the author's studies [J. Marklof, Int. Math. Res.
Not. {\bf 39} (2003) 2131-2151] on the connection between almost modular
functions and the distribution of the sequence $n^2x$ modulo one.

Let ${\mathcal F}_\lambda(\mathbb{S}^n)$ be the space of tensor densities on
$\mathbb{S}^n$ of degree $\lambda$. We consider this space as an induced module
of the nonunitary spherical series of the group $\mathrm{SO}_0(n+1,1)$ and
classify $(\mathrm{so}(n+1,1),\mathrm{SO}(n+1))$-sim$unitary submodules of
${\mathcal F}_\lambda(\mathbb{S}^n)$ as a function of $\lambda$.

We describe a family of words in Thompson's group F which present a challenge
to the question of finding canonical minimal length representatives, and which
show that F is not combable by geodesics. These words have the property that
there are only two possible suffixes of long lengths for geodesic paths to the
word from the identity; one is of the form $g^k$ and the other of the form
$g^{-k}$ where g is a generator of the group.

We study non-trivial deformations of the natural action of the Lie algebra
$\mathrm{Vect}({\mathbb R}^n)$ on the space of differential forms on ${\mathbb
R}^n$. We calculate abstractions for integrability of infinitesimal
multi-parameter deformations and determine the commutative associative algebra
corresponding to the miniversal deformation in the sense of \cite{ff}.

We study the higher Frobenius-Schur indicators of modules over semisimple
Hopf algebras, and relate them to other invariants as the exponent, the order,
and the index. We prove various divisibility and integrality results for these
invariants. In particular, we prove a version of Cauchy's theorem for
semisimple Hopf algebras. Furthermore, we give some examples that illustrate
the general theory.

We revise a monogenic calculus for several non-commuting operators, which is
defined through group representations. Instead of an algebraic homomorphism we
use group covariance. The related notion of joint spectrum and spectral mapping
theorem are discussed. The construction is illustrated by a simple example of
calculus and joint spectrum of two non-commuting selfadjoint (n\times n)
matrices.
  Keywords: Functional calculus, spectrum, intertwining operator, spectral
mapping theorem, jet spaces, monogenic function, Clifford algebra

We show that in the generic case the smooth noncommutative tori associated to
two n by n real skew-symmetric matrices are Morita equivalent if and only if
the matrices are in the same orbit of the natural SO(n, n| Z) action.

We show that in every dimension greater than or equal to 4, there exist
compact Kaehler manifolds which do not have the homotopy type of projective
complex manifolds. Thus they a fortiori are not deformation equivalent to a
projective manifold, which solves negatively Kodaira's problem.
  We give both non simply connected (of dimension at least 4) and simply
connected (of dimension at least 6) such examples.

Using the wavelet theory introduced by the author and J. Benedetto, we
present examples of wavelets on p-adic fields and other locally compact abelian
groups with compact open subgroups. We observe that in this setting, the Haar
and Shannon wavelets (which are at opposite extremes over the real numbers)
coincide and are localized both in time and in frequency. We also study the
behavior of the translation operators required in the theory.

The main purpose of this paper is to study the validity of the
Hausdorff-Young inequality for vector-valued functions defined on a
non-commutative compact group. The natural context for this research is that of
operator spaces. This leads us to formulate a whole new theory of Fourier type
and cotype for the category of operator spaces. The present paper is the first
step in this program, where the basic theory is presented, the main examples
are analyzed and some questions are posed.

In this paper we extend a recent Pisier's inequality for p-orthogonal sums in
non-commutative Lebesgue spaces. To that purpose, we generalize the notion of
p-orthogonality to the class of multi-indexed families of operators. This kind
of families appear naturally in certain non-commutative Khintchine type
inequalities associated with free groups. Other p-orthogonal families are given
by the homogeneous operator-valued polynomials in the Rademacher variables or
the multi-indexed martingale difference sequences. As in Pisier's result, our
tools are mainly combinatorial.

We prove dimension formulas for the cotangent spaces $T^{1}$ and $T^{2}$ for
a class of rational surface singularities by calculating a correction term in
the general dimension formulas. We get that it is zero if the dual graph of the
rational surface singularity $X$ does not contain a particular type of
configurations, and this generalizes a result of Theo de Jong stating that the
correction term $c(X)$ is zero for rational determinantal surface
singularities. In particular our result implies that $c(X)$ is zero for
Riemenschneiders quasi-determinantal rational surface singularities, and this
also generalise results for qoutient singularities.

We examine the geometry of the Cayley graph of the lamplighter group with
respect to the generating set rising from its interpretation as an automata
group due to Grigorchuk and Zuk. We find some metric behavior with respect to
this generating set analogous to the metric behavior in the standard wreath
product generating set. The similar metric behavior includes expressions for
geodesic paths and families of `dead-end' elements, which are endpoints of
terminating geodesic rays. We also exhibit some different metric behavior
between these two generating sets related to the existence of `seesaw'
elements.

We study the Iwasawa theory of a CM elliptic curve $E$ in the anticyclotomic
$\mathbf{Z}_p$-extension $D_\infty$ of the CM field $K$, where $p$ is a prime
of good, supersingular reduction for $E$. Our main result yields an asymptotic
formula for the corank of the $p$-primary Selmer group of $E$ along the
extension $D_\infty/K$.

We extend the scope of a former paper to vector bundle problems involving
more than one vector bundle. As the main application, we obtain the solution of
the well-known moduli problems of vector bundles associated with general
quivers.

From a global series for the alternating zeta function, we derive an infinite
product for pi that resembles the product for $e^\gamma$ ($\gamma$ is Euler's
constant) in math.CA/0306008. (An alternate derivation accelerates Wallis's
product by Euler's transformation.) We account for the resemblance via an
analytic continuation of the polylogarithm. An application is a 1-dim. analog
for ln(pi/2) of the 2-dim. integrals for ln(4/pi) and $\gamma$ in
math.CA/0211148.

The B\"acklund problem is solved for both the compact and noncompact versions
of the Ishimori (2+1)-dimensional nonlinear spin model. In particular, a
realization of the arising B\"acklund algebra in the form of an
infinite-dimensional loop Lie algebra of the Ka\v{c}--Moody type is provided.

We present a self-contained combinatorial approach to Fujita's conjectures in
the toric case. Our main new result is a generalization of Fujita's very
ampleness conjecture for toric varieties with arbitrary singularities. In an
appendix, we use similar methods to give a new proof of an analogous toric
generalization of Fujita's freeness conjecture due to Fujino.

If the left multiplication group of a loop is simple, then the loop is
simple. We use this observation to give examples of infinite simple Bol loops.

A collection C of subgroups of a finite group G can give rise to three
different standard formulas for the cohomology of G in terms of either: the
subgroups in C; or their centralizers; or their normalizers. We give a short
but systematic study of the relationship among such formulas for nine standard
collections C of p-subgroups, obtaining some new formulas in the process. To do
this, we exhibit some sufficient conditions on the poset C which imply
comparison results.

We prove that the classical Oka property of a complex manifold Y, concerning
the existence and homotopy classification of holomorphic mappings from Stein
manifolds to Y, is equivalent to a Runge approximation property for holomorphic
maps from compact convex sets in Euclidean spaces to Y.

The aim of this work is an analytic investigation of differential equations
producing mirror maps as well as giving new examples of mirror maps; one of
these examples is related to (rational approximations to) $\zeta(4)$. We also
indicate certain observations that might become a subject of further research.

Let k be a field of characteristic p>0. A theorem of de Jong shows that
morphisms of modules over W(k)[[t]] with Frobenius and connection structure
descend from the completion of W(k)((t)). A careful reading of de Jong's proof
suggests the possibility that an analogous theorem holds for modules with only
a Frobenius structure. We show that this analogue holds in one weak formulation
and fails in a second stronger formulation.

We compute the low dimensional cohomologies $\tilde H^q(gc_N,C)$,
$H^q(gc_N,\C)$ of the infinite rank general Lie conformal algebras $gc_N$ with
trivial coefficients for $q\le3, N=1$ or $q\le2, N\ge2$. We also prove that the
cohomology of $gc_N$ with coefficients in its natural module is trivial, i.e.,
$H^*(gc_N,\C[\ptl]^N)=0$; thus partially solve an open problem of
Bakalov-Kac-Voronov in [{\it Comm. Math. Phys.,} {\bf200} (1999), 561-598].

In this paper we study the behaviour of the Lefschetz property under the
blow-up construction. We show that it is possible to reduce the dimension of
the kernel of the Lefschetz map if we blow up along a suitable submanifold
satisfying the Lefschetz property. We use that, together with results about
Massey products, to construct nonformal (simply connected) symplectic manifolds
satisfying the Lefschetz property.

Following the general strategy proposed by G.Rybnikov, we present a proof of
his well-known result, that is, the existence of two arrangements of lines
having the same combinatorial type, but non-isomorphic fundamental groups. To
do so, the Alexander Invariant and certain invariants of combinatorial line
arrangements are presented and developed for combinatorics with only double and
triple points. This is part of a more general project to better understand the
relationship between topology and combinatorics of line arrangements.

In this paper, we consider an obstruction to asymptotic Chow-semistability of
a polarized Kaehler algebraic manifold. Even when a linear algebraic group of
positive dimension acts nontrivially and holomorphically on a polarized Kaehler
algebraic manifold with constant scalar curvature, the vanishing of the
obstruction allows us to generalize Donaldson's construction of approximate
solutions for equations of balanced metrics.

For any nonnegative self-adjoint operators A and B in a separable Hilbert
space, we show that the Trotter-type formula $[(e^{i2tA/n}+e^{i2tB/n})/2]^n$
converges strongly in the closure of the intersection of the domains of A^{1/2}
and B^{1/2}, along some subsequence and for almost every real number t. This
result extends to the degenerate case and to Kato-functions following the
method of Kato.

The equivariant and ordinary cohomology rings of Hilbert schemes of points on
the minimal resolution C^2//G for cyclic G are studied using vertex operator
technique, and connections between these rings and the class algebras of wreath
products are explicitly established. We further show that certain generating
functions of equivariant intersection numbers on the Hilbert schemes and
related moduli spaces of sheaves on C^2//G are tau functions of 2-Toda
hierarchies.

Let $D(s)$ be a fractional derivation of order $s$. For a real $p\ne 0$, we
construct an integral operator $A(p)$ in an appropriate functional space such
that $A(p) D(s) A(p)^{-1}=D(p s)$ for all $s$. The kernel of the operator
$A(p)$ is expressed in terms of a function similar to the stable densities.

We construct families of hyperelliptic curves over Q of arbitrary genus g
with (at least) g integral elements in K_2. We also verify the Beilinson
conjectures about K_2 numerically for several curves with g=2, 3, 4 and 5.
  The paper is essentially self-contained and may serve as an elementary
introduction to Beilinson's conjectures for K_2 of curves.

We introduce the notion of an EZ-structure on a group. Delta-hyperbolic
groups and CAT(0)-groups have EZ-structures. We show torsion-free groups having
an EZ-structure automatically have an action by homeomorphisms on a closed
(high-dimensional) ball, which is well-behaved away from a "bad limit set" in
the boundary of the ball. We show that groups having such an action satisfy the
Novikov conjecture. For torsion-free delta-hyperbolic groups $G$, we also give
a lower bound for the homotopy groups $\pi_n(P(BG))$, where $P$ is the stable
topological pseudo-isotopy functor.

For each Painlev\'e system P_J except the first one, we have a B\"acklund
transformation group which is a lift of an affine Weyl group. In this paper, we
show that the B\"acklund transformation groups for J=V,IV,III,II are
successively obtained from that for J=VI by the well known degeneration or
confluence processes.

The methods of integral operators on the cohomology of Hilbert schemes of
points on surfaces are developed. They are used to establish integral bases for
the cohomology groups of Hilbert schemes of points on a class of surfaces (and
conjecturally, for all simply connected surfaces).

We construct a time-symmetric asymptotically flat initial data set to the
Einstein-Maxwell Equations which satisfies the inequality: m - 1/2(R + Q^2/R) <
0, where m is the total mass, R=sqrt(A/4) is the area radius of the outermost
horizon and Q is the total charge. This yields a counter-example to a natural
extension of the Penrose Inequality to charged black holes.

We give a very simple argument to the effect that most germs of generic real
analytic Cauchy-Riemann manifolds of positive CR dimension are not
holomorphically embeddable into any generic real algebraic CR manifold of the
same real codimension in a finite dimensional space. In particular, most such
germs are not holomorphically equivalent to a germ of a generic real algebraic
CR manifold.

A method for computing the Hankel transform is proposed whereby the letter is
reduced to a sum by representing the integrand as a smooth function times a
Bessel function. The smooth function is replaced by its wavelet decomposition
with a basis such that its scalar product with the Bessel function is
calculated analytically. The result is represented as a series, with the
coefficients strongly depending on the local behavior of the function being
transformed. The application of the method is demonstrated by an example
illustrated with plots.

We show that the natural map from the mapping class groups of surfaces to the
automorphism groups of free groups, induces an infinite loop map on the
classifying spaces of the stable groups after plus construction. The proof uses
automorphisms of free groups with boundaries which play the role of mapping
class groups of surfaces with several boundary components.

We study eta-Einstein geometry as a class of distinguished Riemannian metrics
on contact metric manifolds. In particular, we use a previous solution of the
Calabi problem for Sasakian geometry to prove the existence of eta-Einstein
structures on many different compact manifolds, including exotic spheres. We
also relate these results to the existence of Einstein-Weyl structures.

We derive some new presentations for the Yangian associated to the Lie
algebra gl_n(C) that are adapted to parabolic subalgebras. At one extreme, the
presentation is just the usual RTT presentation, whilst at the other extreme it
is a variation on Drinfeld's presentation. All these presentations play an
important role in our subsequent article "Shifted Yangians and finite
W-algebras".

We give a presentation for the finite W-algebra associated to a nilpotent
matrix inside the general linear Lie algebra over C. In the special case that
the nilpotent matrix consists of n Jordan blocks each of the same size l, the
presentation is that of the Yangian of level l associated to the Lie algebra
gl_n, as was first observed by Ragoucy and Sorba. In the general case, we are
lead to introduce some generalizations of the Yangian which we call the shifted
Yangians.

We extend knot contact homology to a theory over the ring
$\mathbb{Z}[\lambda^{\pm 1},\mu^{\pm 1}]$, with the invariant given
topologically and combinatorially. The improved invariant, which is defined for
framed knots in $S^3$ and can be generalized to knots in arbitrary manifolds,
distinguishes the unknot and can distinguish mutants. It contains the Alexander
polynomial and naturally produces a two-variable polynomial knot invariant
which is related to the $A$-polynomial.

We start the classification of smooth projective threefolds X whose
anticanonical bundles -K_X are big and nef but not ample. In this paper we
treat the case b_2(X) = 2 and the morphism associated with the base point free
linear system |-mK_X|, m>>0, is divisorial.

The construction of a quantum groupoid out of a double groupoid satisfying a
filling condition and a perturbation datum is given. This extends previous work
that appeared in math.QA/0308228. Several important classes of examples of
tensor categories are shown to fit into this construction. Certain invariants
such as a pivotal group-like element and quantum and Frobenius-Perron
dimensions of simple objects are computed.

There exists a well-known Lefschetz formula for the number of fixed points in
algebraic topology. In algebraic geometry, there exist cohomologies of coherent
sheaves. It is natural to consider the same alternated sum of traces as in
Lefschetz formula for cohomologies of sheaves. In the present paper, we
consider the case of the action of a one-dimensional torus on a smooth
projectve variety. Using theory of adelic complexes it becomes possible to
rewrite coherent Lefschetz formula in a new compact form and then to prove it.

In this note, we consider K3 surfaces X with an action by the alternating
group A_5. We show that if a cyclic extension A_5 . C_n acts on X then n = 1,
2, or 4. We also determine the A_5-invariant sublattice of the K3 lattice and
its discriminant form.

A representation of the Jacobi algebra $\mathfrak{h}_1\rtimes
\mathfrak{su}(1,1)$ by first order differential operators with polynomial
coefficients on the manifold $\mathbb{C}\times \mathcal{D}_1$ is presented. The
Hilbert space of holomorphic functions on which the holomorphic first order
differential operators with polynomials coefficients act is constructed.

We show that the Fourier-Laplace transform of an irreducible regular
differential system on the Riemann sphere underlies, when one only considers
the part at finite distance, a polarizable regular twistor
$\mathcal{D}$-module. The associated holomorphic bundle out of the origin is
therefore equipped with a natural harmonic metric with a tame behaviour near
the origin.

We give a new proof of some characteristic-free fundamental theorems in
invariant theory first proved in C. De Concini and C. Procesi, A characteristic
free approach to invariant theory, Adv. Math. 21 (1976), 330--354. We treat the
action of the general linear group and the symplectic group. Our approach is
geometric, and utilizes the fact that the categorical quotients are principal
fiber bundles off codimension two or more.

We prove that two derived equivalent twisted K3 surfaces have isomorphic
periods. The converse is shown for K3 surfaces with large Picard number. It is
also shown that all possible twisted derived equivalences between arbitrary
twisted K3 surfaces form a subgroup of the group of all orthogonal
transformations of the cohomology of a K3 surface.
  The passage from twisted derived equivalences to an action on the cohomology
is made possible by twisted Chern characters that will be introduced for
arbitrary smooth projective varieties.

We give conditions for the exactness of Rokhlin endomorphisms, apply these to
random walks on locally compact, second countable topological groups and obtain
that the action on the Poisson boundary of an adapted random walk on such a
group is weakly mixing.

Conformally invariant functionals on the space of knots are introduced via
extrinsic conformal geometry of the knot and integral geometry on the space of
spheres. Our functionals are expressed in terms of a complex-valued 2-form
which can be considered as the cross-ratio of a pair of infinitesimal segments
of the knot. We show that our functionals detect the unknot as the total
curvature does, and that their values explode if a knot degenerates to a
singular knot with double points.

A (normal) variety is Gorenstein if it is Cohen-Macualay and its canonical
sheaf is a line bundle. This property, which measures the ``pathology'' of the
singularities of a variety, is thus stronger than Cohen-Macualayness, but is
also weaker than smoothness. We determine which Schubert varieties are
Gorenstein in terms of a combinatorial characterization using generalized
pattern avoidance conditions. We also give an explicit description as a line
bundle of the canonical sheaf of a Gorenstein Schubert variety.

Let P_nk(x) denote the sum of the lowest k+1 terms in the expansion of
(1+x)^n. We investigate the irreducibility of P_nk(x) and more general
univariate polynomials related to it. Polynomials P_nk(x) naturally arise in
Schubert calculus, see ArXiv e-print math.RT/0409329 by I.Scherbak.

In the mid-1960s Borevic and Faddeev initiated the study of the Galois module
structure of groups of pth-power classes of cyclic extensions K/F of pth-power
degree. They determined the structure of these modules in the case when F is a
local field. In this paper we determine these Galois modules for all base
fields F.

In this paper we obtain various results about the geometry of nilpotent
orbits. In particular, we obtain a better understanding of the
Kostant-Sekiguchi correspondence and Kronheimer's instanton flow. We utilize
the moment map of Ness and the SL(2)-orbit theorem from Hodge theory. The
results of this paper are used in the proof of the Barbarsch-Vogan conjecture
in math.RT/0005305 (Ann. of Math. (2) 151 (2000), no. 3, 1071-1118).

Asymptotically cylindrical Ricci-flat manifolds play a key role in
constructing Topological Quantum Field Theories. It is particularly important
to understand their behavior at the cylindrical ends and the natural
restrictions on the geometry. In this paper we show that an orientable,
connected, asymptotically cylindrical manifold (M,g) with Ricci-flat metric g
can have at most two cylindrical ends. In the case where there are two such
cylindrical ends then there is reduction in the holonomy group Hol(g) and (M,g)
is a cylinder.

We explore connections between geometric properties of the Levi foliation of
a Levi-flat hypersurface M and holomorphic convexity of compact sets in M, or
bounded in part by M. Applications include extendability of Cauchy-Riemann
functions, solvability of the dibar_b-equation, approximability of holomorphic
and CR functions, and global regularity of the dibar-Neumann operator.

Like its precursor this paper is concerned with the Hopf algebra of
noncommutative symmetric functions and its graded dual, the Hopf algebra of
quasisymmetric functions. It complements and extends the previous paper but is
also selfcontained. Here we concentrate on explicit descriptions
(constructions) of a basis of the Lie algebra of primitives of NSymm and an
explicit free polynomial basis of QSymm. As before everything is done over the
integers. As applications the matter of the existence of suitable analogues of
Frobenius and Verschiebung morphisms is discussed.

We consider infinitely convolved Bernoulli measures (or simply Bernoulli
convolutions) related to the $\beta$-numeration. A matrix decomposition of
these measures is obtained in the case when $\beta$ is a PV number. We also
determine their Gibbs properties for $\beta$ being a multinacci number, which
makes the multifractal analysis of the corresponding Bernoulli convolution
possible.

A new approach is suggested to characterize algebraically automorphisms of
the category of free algebras of a given variety. It gives in many cases an
answer to the problem set by the first of authors, if automorphisms of such a
category are inner or not. This question is important for universal algebraic
geometry [arXiv:math. GM\slash 0210187],[arXiv:math. GM\slash 0210194]. Most of
results are actually valid for arbitrary categories with a represented
forgetful functor.

There is a natural capacity associated to any vector valued Riesz kernel of a
given homogeneity. If we are in the plane and the kernel is the Cauchy kernel,
then this capacity is analytic capacity. Our main result states that if the
homogeneity of the kernel is negative and larger than minus one, then the
capacity is comparable to one of the well studied capacities of non-linear
potential theory.

We show that any orientation preserving Hodge isometry between the Hodge
structures of two K3 surfaces X and X' twisted by Brauer classes $\alpha$ resp.
$\alpha'$ can be lifted to a Fourier-Mukai equivalence between the derived
categories of $\alpha$ resp. $\alpha'$-twisted sheaves.

In the Grothendieck cohomology of a flag variety G/H there are two canonical
additive bases, namely, the Demazure basis and the Grothendieck basis We
present explicit formulae that reduce the multiplication of these basis
elements to the Cartan numbers of G.

Motivated by some binomial coefficients identities encountered in our
approach to the enumeration of convex polyominoes, we prove some more general
identities of the same type, one of which turns out to be related to a strange
evaluation of ${}_3F_2$ of Gessel and Stanton.

In this paper we prove the existence of a formal dynamical twist quantization
for any triangular and non-modified formal classical dynamical $r$-matrix in
the reductive case. The dynamical twist is constructed as the image of the
dynamical $r$-matrix by a $L_\infty$-quasi-isomorphism. This quasi-isomorphism
also allows us to classify formal dynamical twist quantizations up to gauge
equivalence.

We apply a degenerate version of a result due to Hirschowitz, Ramanan and
Voisin to verify Green and Green-Lazarsfeld conjectures over explicit open sets
inside each $d$-gonal stratum of curves $X$ with $d<[g_X/2]+2$. By the same
method, we verify the Green-Lazarsfeld conjecture for any curve of odd genus
and maximal gonality. The proof invokes Voisin's solution to the generic Green
conjecture as a key argument.

For proper subsets U of {1,2,...,31} we define and construct U-regular
isotopy invariants of the Carter-Rieger-Saito movies (representing knotted
surfaces) and use these to show that there are ambient isotopic knotted
surfaces represented by movies M1 and M2 for which movie-moves of type 31 are
required to get from M1 to M2.

We study functions on the class group of a toric variety measuring the rates
of growth of the cohomology groups of multiples of divisors. We show that these
functions are piecewise polynomial with respect to finite polyhedral chamber
decompositions. As applications, we express the self-intersection number of a
T-Cartier divisor as a linear combination of the volumes of the bounded regions
in the corresponding hyperplane arrangement and prove an asymptotic converse to
Serre vanishing.

Let $\Omega$ be an open convex domain of the complex plane. We study
constants K such that $\Omega$ is K-spectral or complete K-spectral for each
continuous linear Hilbert space operator with numerical range included in
$\Omega$. Several approaches are discussed.

In [Yu.M. Berezansky, E. Lytvynov, D. A. Mierzejewski, Ukrainian Math. J. 55
(2003), 853--858 ], the Jacobi field of a L\'evy process was derived. This
field consists of commuting self-adjoint operators acting in an extended
(interacting) Fock space. However, these operators have a quite complicated
structure. In this note, using ideas from [L. Accardi. U. Franz, M. Skeide,
Comm. Math. Phys. 228 (2002), 123--150] and [E. Lytvynov, Infin. Dimen. Anal.
Quant. Prob. Rel. Top. 7 (2004), 619--629], we obtain a unitary equivalent
representation of the Jacobi field of a L\'evy process. In this representation,
the operators act in a usual symmetric Fock space and have a much simpler
structure.

In this paper we calculate Kolmogorov-Sinai entropy $h_M(S)$ of the
generalized Markov shift associated with a contractive Markov system (CMS)
\cite{Wer1} using the coding map constructed in \cite{Wer3}. We show that
\[h_M(S)=-\sum\limits_{e\in E}\int\limits_{K_{i(e)}} p_e\log p_ed\mu\] where
$\mu$ is a unique invariant Borel probability measure of the CMS. I. Werner,
Contractive Markov systems, J. London Math. Soc. (2005) 236-258. I. Werner,
Coding map for a contractive Markov system, Math. Proc. Camb. Phil. Soc. to
appear 140 (2), March 2006.

We show that a finite regular cell complex with the intersection property is
a Cohen-Macaulay space iff the top enriched cohomology module is the only
nonvanishing one. We prove a comprehensive generalization of Balinski's theorem
on convex polytopes. Also we show that for any Cohen-Macaulay cell complex as
above, although there is no generalization of the Stanley-Reisner ring of
simplicial complexes, there is a generalization of its canonical module.

Suppose $G$ is an arbitrary additively written primary abelian group with a
fixed large subgroup $L$. It is shown that $G$ is (a) summable; (b)
$\sigma$-summable;\break (c) a $\Sigma$-group; (d) $p^{\omega+1}$-projective
only when so is $L$. These claims extend results of such a kind obtained by
Benabdallah, Eisenstadt, Irwin and Poluianov, {\it Acta Math. Acad. Sci.
Hungaricae} (1970) and Khan, {\it Proc. Indian Acad. Sci. Sect. A} (1978).

We give a generalization of Hochster's formula for local cohomologies of
square-free monomial ideals to monomial ideals, which are not necessarily
square-free. Using this formula, we give combinatorial characterizations of
generalized Cohen-Macaulay monomial ideals. We also give other applications of
the generalized Hochster's formula.

We strengthen the link between holomorphic and generating-function invariants
of Legendrian knots by establishing a formula relating the number of
augmentations of a knot's contact homology to the complete ruling invariant of
Chekanov and Pushkar.

Let $\la$ be a preprojective algebra of simply laced Dynkin type $\Delta$. We
study maximal rigid $\la$-modules, their endomorphism algebras and a mutation
operation on these modules. This leads to a representation-theoretic
construction of the cluster algebra structure on the ring $\C[N]$ of polynomial
functions on a maximal unipotent subgroup $N$ of a complex Lie group of type
$\Delta$. As an application we obtain that all cluster monomials of $\C[N]$
belong to the dual semicanonical basis.

In this paper we provide an asymptotic analysis of generalised bipower
measures of the variation of price processes in financial economics. These
measures encompass the usual quadratic variation, power variation and bipower
variations which have been highlighted in recent years in financial
econometrics. The analysis is carried out under some rather general Brownian
semimartingale assumptions, which allow for standard leverage effects.

We study the connection between stringy Betti numbers of Gorenstein toric
varieties and the generating functions of the Ehrhart polynomials of certain
polyhedral regions. We use this point of view to give counterexamples to Hibi's
conjecture on the unimodality of delta-vectors of reflexive polytopes.

In this note we obtain the characterization for asymptotic directions on
various subgroups of the diffeomorphism group. We give a simple proof of
non-existence of such directions for area-preserving diffeomorphisms of closed
surfaces of non-zero curvature. Finally, we exhibit the common origin of the
Monge-Ampere equations in 2D fluid dynamics and mass transport.

We prove that the minimal Euler characteristic of a closed symplectic
four-manifold with given fundamental group is often much larger than the
minimal Euler characteristic of almost complex closed four-manifolds with the
same fundamental group. In fact, the difference between the two is arbitrarily
large for certain groups.

The Gromov-Witten theory of Deligne-Mumford stacks is a recent development,
and hardly any computations have been done beyond 3-point genus 0 invariants.
This paper provides explicit recursions which, together with some invariants
computed by hand, determine all genus 0 invariants of the stack P^2_{D,2}. Here
D is a smooth plane curve and P^2_{D,2} is locally isomorphic to the stack
quotient [U/(Z/(2))], where U -> V \subset P^2 is a double cover branched along
D \cap V. The introduction discusses an enumerative application of these
invariants.

We obtain several determinant evaluations, related to affine root systems,
which provide elliptic extensions of Weyl denominator formulas. Some of these
are new, also in the polynomial special case, while others yield new proofs of
the Macdonald identities for the seven infinite families of irreducible reduced
affine root systems.

Our main result is the description of generators of the total coordinate ring
of the blow-up of $P^n$ in any number of points that lie on a rational normal
curve. As a corollary we show that the algebra of invariants of the action of a
two-dimensional vector group introduced by Nagata is finitely generated by
certain explicit determinants. We also prove the finite generation of the
algebras of invariants of actions of vector groups related to T-shaped Dynkin
diagrams introduced by Mukai.

This paper discusses operators lowering or raising the degree but preserving
the parameters of special orthogonal polynomials. Results for one-variable
classical (q-)orthogonal polynomials are surveyed. For Jacobi polynomials
associated with root system BC_2 a new pair of lowering and raising operators
is obtained.

These lecture notes for the IAS/Park City Graduate Summer School in Geometric
Combinatorics (July 2004) provide an overview of root systems, generalized
associahedra, and the combinatorics of clusters.
  Lectures 1-2 cover classical material: root systems, finite reflection
groups, and the Cartan-Killing classification. Lectures 3-4 provide an
introduction to cluster algebras from a combinatorial perspective. Lecture 5 is
devoted to related topics in enumerative combinatorics.

We consider the classification problem for compact Lie groups $G\subset U(n)$
which are generated by a single conjugacy class with a fixed number $N$ of
distinct eigenvalues. We give an explicit classification when N=3, and apply
this to extract information about Galois representations and braid group
representations.

The dynamics of recombination in genetics leads to an interesting nonlinear
differential equation, which has a natural generalization to a measure valued
version. The latter can be solved explicitly under rather general
circumstances. It admits a closed formula for the semigroup of nonlinear
positive operators that emerges from the forward flow and is, in general,
embedded in a multi-parameter semigroup.

In this note we give a family of planar polynomial differential systems with
a prescribed hyperbolic limit cycle. This family constitutes a corrected and
wider version of an example given in the work of M.A. Abdelkader entitled
``Relaxation Oscillators with Exact Limit Cycles'', which appeared in J. Math.
Anal. Appl. 218 (1998), 308--312. The result given in this note may be used to
construct models of Li\'enard differential equations exhibiting a desired limit
cycle.

Exact and asymptotic formulae are displayed for the coefficients $\lambda_n$
used in Li's criterion for the Riemann Hypothesis. For $n \to \infty$ we obtain
that if (and only if) the Hypothesis is true, $\lambda_n \sim n(A \log n +B)$
(with $A>0$ and $B$ explicitly given, also for the case of more general zeta or
$L$-functions); whereas in the opposite case, $\lambda_n$ has a non-tempered
oscillatory form.

We give an elementary proof of the Paley-Wiener theorem for smooth functions
for the Dunkl transforms on the real line, establish a similar theorem for
L^2-functions and prove identities in the spirit of Bang for L^p-functions. The
proofs seem to be new also in the special case of the Fourier transform.

We show that the equivariant Chow cohomology ring of a toric variety is
naturally isomorphic to the ring of integral piecewise polynomial functions on
the associated fan. This gives a large class of singular spaces for which
localization holds in equivariant Chow cohomology with integer coefficients. We
also compute the equivariant Chow cohomology of toric prevarieties and general
complex hypertoric varieties in terms of piecewise polynomial functions.

It is proven that a local Lie algebra in the sense of A. A. Kirillov
determines the base manifold up to a diffeomorphism provided the anchor map is
nowhere-vanishing. In particular, the Lie algebras of nowhere-vanishing Poisson
or Jacobi brackets determine manifolds. This result has been proven for
different types of differentiability: smooth, real-analytic, and holomorphic.

We show that the dual of the cone of divisors on a complete Q-factorial toric
variety X whose stable base loci have dimension less than k is generated by
curves on small modifications that move in families sweeping out the birational
transforms of k-dimensional subvarieties of X. We give an example showing that
it does not suffice to consider curves on X itself.

In this note we prove the following three algebraic facts which have
applications in the theory of holonomy groups and homogeneous spaces: Any
irreducibly acting connected subgroup $G \subset Gl(n,\rr)$ is closed.
Moreover, if $G$ admits an invariant bilinear form of Lorentzian signature, $G$
is maximal, i.e. it is conjugated to $SO(1,n-1)_0$. Finally we calculate the
vector space of $G$-invariant symmetric bilinear forms, show that it is at most
3-dimensional, and determine the maximal stabilizers for each dimension.

We propose a simple new combinatorial model to study spaces of acyclic Jacobi
diagrams, in which they are identified with algebras of words modulo
operations. This provides a starting point for a word-problem type
combinatorial investigation of such spaces, and provides fresh insights on
known results.

Using the corepresentation of the quantum supergroup OSp_q(1/2) a general
method for constructing noncommutative spaces covariant under its coaction is
developed. In particular, a one-parameter family of covariant algebras, which
may be interpreted as noncommutative superspheres, is constructed. It is
observed that embedding of the supersphere in the OSp_q(1/2) algebra is
possible. This realization admits infinitesimal characterization a la
Koornwinder. A covariant oscillator realization of the supersphere is also
presented.

We define a family of graded restricted modules for the polynomial current
algebra associated to a simple Lie algebra. We study the graded character of
these modules and show that they are the same as the graded characters of
certain Demazure modules. In particular, we see that the specialized characters
are the same as those of the Kirillov Reshetikhin modules for quantum affine
algebras.

We consider Riemannian metrics compatible with the natural symplectic
structure on T^2 x M, where T^2 is a symplectic 2-Torus and M is a closed
symplectic manifold. To each such metric we attach the corresponding Laplacian
and consider its first positive eigenvalue \lambda_1. We show that \lambda_1
can be made arbitrarily large by deforming the metric structure, keeping the
symplectic structure fixed. The conjecture is that the same is true for any
symplectic manifold of dimension >= 4. We reduce the general conjecture to a
purely symplectic question.

When $G$ is a connected compact Lie group, and $\pi$ is a closed surface
group, then $Hom(\pi,G)$ contains an open dense $Out(\pi)$-invariant subset
which is a smooth symplectic manifold. This symplectic structure is
$Out(\pi)$-invariant and therefore defines an invariant measure $\mu$, which
has finite volume. The corresponding unitary representation of $Out(\pi)$ on
$L^2(Hom(\pi,G)/G,\mu)$ contains no finite-dimensional subrepresentations
besides the constants. This note gives a short proof that when $G=SU(n)$, the
representation $L^2(Hom(\pi,G)/G,\mu)$ contains many other invariant subspaces.

We consider ergodic families of Schr\"odinger operators over base dynamics
given by strictly ergodic subshifts on finite alphabets. It is expected that
the majority of these operators have purely singular continuous spectrum
supported on a Cantor set of zero Lebesgue measure. These properties have
indeed been established for large classes of operators of this type over the
course of the last twenty years. We review the mechanisms leading to these
results and briefly discuss analogues for CMV matrices.

We prove that if the classical Baum-Connes conjecture in complex K-theory is
true (for a given discrete group G), then the conjecture is also true in the
real case (for the same group G). The essential ingredients of the proof are
the descent theorem in topological K-theory (math.KT/0509396) and a Paschke
duality for C*-algebras proved by John Roe (Q.J. Math. 55 (2004) 325-331).
According to S. Stolz, this result is linked with the existence of a Riemannian
metric of positive scalar curvature on a compact connected spin manifold with G
as fundamental group.

We investigate the finite-dimensional representation theory of two-parameter
quantum orthogonal and symplectic groups that we found in [BGH] under the
assumption that $rs^{-1}$ is not a root of unity and extend some results [BW1,
BW2] obtained for type $A$ to types $B$, $C$ and $D$. We construct the
corresponding $R$-matrices and the quantum Casimir operators, by which we prove
that the complete reducibility Theorem also holds for the categories of
finite-dimensional weight modules for types $B$, $C$, $D$.

We introduce a new and rich class of graph coloring manifolds via the Hom
complex construction of Lovasz. The class comprises examples of Stiefel
manifolds, series of spheres and products of spheres, cubical surfaces, as well
as examples of Seifert manifolds. Asymptotically, graph coloring manifolds
provide examples of highly connected, highly symmetric manifolds.

A thin Lie algebra is a Lie algebra graded over the positive integers
satisfying a certain narrowness condition. We describe several cyclic grading
of the modular Hamiltonian Lie algebras $H(2\colon\n;\omega_2)$ (of dimension
one less than a power of $p$) from which we construct infinite-dimensional thin
Lie algebras. In the process we provide an explicit identification of
$H(2\colon\n;\omega_2)$ with a Block algebra. We also compute its second
cohomology group and its derivation algebra (in arbitrary prime
characteristic).

We show that any pointed Hopf algebra with infinitesimal braiding associated
to the conjugacy class of pi in S_n is infinite-dimensional, if either the
order of pi is odd, or pi is a product of disjoint cycles of odd order except
for exactly two transpositions.

In this note we determine all power series $F(X)\in 1+X\F_p[[X]]$ such that
$(F(X+Y))^{-1} F(X)F(Y)$ has only terms of total degree a multiple of $p$. Up
to a scalar factor, they are all the series of the form $F(X)=E_p(cX)\cdot
G(X^p)$ for some $c\in\F_p$ and $G(X)\in 1+X\F_p[[X]]$, where
$E_p(X)=\exp\big(\sum_{i=0}^{\infty}X^{p^i}/p^i\big)$ is the Artin-Hasse
exponential.

Let M be a closed Riemannian manifold. We consider the inner radius of a
nodal domain for a large eigenvalue \lambda. We give upper and lower bounds on
the inner radius of the type C/\lambda^k. Our proof is based on a local
behavior of eigenfunctions discovered by Donnelly and Fefferman, and a
Poincar\'e type inequality proved by Maz'ya. Sharp lower bounds are known only
in dimension two. We give an account of this case too.

We establish the existence of the asymptotic expansion of the Bergman kernel
associated to the spin-c Dirac operators acting on high tensor powers of line
bundles with non-degenerate mixed curvature (negative and positive eigenvalues)
by extending the paper " On the asymptotic expansion of Bergman kernel "
(math.DG/0404494) of Dai-Liu-Ma. We compute the second coefficient b_1 in the
asymptotic expansion using the method of our paper "Generalized Bergman kernels
on symplectic manifolds" (math.DG/0411559).

We have expressed the tensor commutation matrix n\otimes n as linear
combination of the tensor products of the generalized Gell-Mann matrices. The
tensor commutation matrices 3\otimes 2 and 2\otimes 3 have been expressed in
terms of the classical Gell-Mann matrices and the Pauli matrices.

In this paper, we establish the generalized Hyers--Ulam--Rassias stability of
$C^*$-ternary ring homomorphisms associated to the Trif functional equation
\begin{eqnarray*} d \cdot C_{d-2}^{l-2} f(\frac{x_1+... +x_d}{d})+
C_{d-2}^{l-1}\sum_{j=1}^d f(x_j) = l \cdot \sum_{1\leq j_1< ... < j_l\leq d}
f(\frac{x_{j_1} + ... + x_{j_l}}{l}). \end{eqnarray*}

General theory of elliptic hypergeometric series and integrals is outlined.
Main attention is paid to the examples obeying properties of the "classical"
special functions. In particular, an elliptic analogue of the Gauss
hypergeometric function and some of its properties are described. Present
review is based on author's habilitation thesis [Spi7] containing a more
detailed account of the subject.

Let $\k$ be an arbitrary field. For any fixed badly approximable power series
$\Theta$ in $\k((X^{-1}))$, we give an explicit construction of continuum many
badly approximable power series $\Phi$ for which the pair $(\Theta, \Phi)$
satisfies the Littlewood conjecture. We further discuss the Littlewood
conjecture for pairs of algebraic power series.

We present an alternative construction of Soergel's category of bimodules
associated to a reflection faithful representation of a Coxeter system. We show
that its objects can be viewed as sheaves on the associated moment graph. We
introduce an exact structure and show that Soergel's "special" bimodules are
the projective objects. Then we construct the indecomposable projectives by
both a global and a local method, discuss a version of the Kazhdan-Lusztig
conjecture and prove it for universal Coxeter systems.

This paper is an appendix to the paper ``Randomly Growing Braid on Three
Strands and the Manta Ray'' by J. Mairesse and F. Math\'eus (to appear in the
Annals of Applied Probability). It contains the details of some computations,
and the proofs of some results concerning the examples treated there, as well
as some extensions.

We show that several terminating summation and transformation formulas for
basic hypergeometric series can be proved in a straightforward way. Along the
same line, new finite forms of Jacobi's triple product identity and Watson's
quintuple product identity are also proved.

We prove that for the uniquely ergodic ${\bf R}^d$ action associated with a
primitive substitution tiling of finite local complexity, every measurable
eigenfunction coincides with a continuous function almost everywhere. Thus,
topological weak-mixing is equivalent to measure-theoretic weak-mixing for such
actions. If the expansion map for the substitution is a pure dilation by
$\theta>1$ and the substitution has a fixed point, then failure of weak-mixing
is equivalent to $\theta$ being a Pisot number.

We prove Bourgain's Return Times Theorem for a range of exponents $p$ and $q$
that are outside the duality range. An oscillation result is used to prove
hitherto unknown almost everywhere convergence for the signed average analog of
Bourgain's averages. As an immediate corollary we obtain a Wiener-Wintner type
of result for the ergodic Hilbert series.

Kashiwara and Saito have defined a crystal structure on the set of
irreducible components of Lusztig's quiver varieties. This gives a geometric
realization of the crystal graph of the lower half of the quantum group
associated to a simply-laced Kac-Moody algebra. Using an enumeration of the
irreducible components of Lusztig's quiver varieties in finite and affine type
A by combinatorial data, we compute the geometrically defined crystal structure
in terms of this combinatorics. We conclude by comparing the combinatorial
realization of the crystal graph thus obtained with other combinatorial models
involving Young tableaux and Young walls.

In this article, we investigate the resurgent properties of the WKB solutions
for a singularly perturbated second order ordinary differential equation. In
particular, we extend and propose a new proof of a theorem due to Aoki (et al)
near a simple turning point, in the framework of the exact WKB analysis. Our
scheme of proof is based on a Laplace-integral representation derived from an
existence theorem of holomorphic solutions for a linear singular partial
differential equation.

In cyclic, degree 8 extensions of algebraic number fields $N/K$, ambiguous
ideals in N are canonical $\mathbb{Z}[C_8]$-modules. Their
$\mathbb{Z}[C_8]$-structure is determined here. It is described in terms of
indecomposable modules and determined by ramification invariants. Although
infinitely many indecomposable $\mathbb{Z}[C_8]$-modules are available
(classification by Yakovlev), only 23 appear.

The convergence theory for the set of simultaneously $\psi$-approximable
points lying on a planar curve is established. Our results complement the
divergence theory developed in `Diophantine approximation on planar curves and
the distribution of rational points' (by V. Beresnevich, H. Dickinson, and S.
Velani, with an Appendix: `Sums of two squares near perfect squares' by R.C.
Vaughan, To appear: Annals of Math., Pre-print: arkiv:math.NT/0401148, (2004),
1-52.) and thereby completes the general metric theory for planar curves.

We provide a coordinate-free version of the local classification, due to A.
G. Walker [Quart. J. Math. Oxford (2) 1, 69 (1950)], of null parallel
distributions on pseudo-Riemannian manifolds. The underlying manifold is
realized, locally, as the total space of a fibre bundle, each fibre of which is
an affine principal bundle over a pseudo-Riemannian manifold. All structures
just named are naturally determined by the distribution and the metric, in
contrast with the non-canonical choice of coordinates in the usual formulation
of Walker's theorem.

We study the global existence and space-time asymptotics of solutions for a
class of nonlocal parabolic semilinear equations. Our models include the
Nernst-Planck and the Debye-Hukel drift-diffusion systems as well as
parabolic-elliptic systems of chemotaxis. In the case of a model of
self-gravitating particles, we also give a result on the finite time blow up of
solutions with localized and oscillating complex-valued initial data, using a
method by S. Montgomery-Smith.

Given a II$_1$ factor M and a masa A of M, we prove a version of the
Schur-Horn Theorem, together with a contractive version. These results are
inspired on a recent conjecture of Arveson and Kadison (math.OA/0508482).

We interpret tensors on a smooth manifold M as differential forms over a
graded commutative algebra called the algebra of iterated differential forms
over M. This allows us to put standard tensor calculus in a new differentially
closed context and, in particular, enriches it with new natural operations.
Applications will be considered in subsequent notes.

Let $(M^n,g),~n\ge 3$ be a noncompact complete Riemannian manifold with
compact boundary and $f$ a smooth function on $\partial M$. In this paper we
show that for a large class of such manifolds, there exists a metric within the
conformal class of $g$ that is complete, has zero scalar curvature on $M$ and
has mean curvature $f$ on the boundary. The problem is equivalent to finding a
positive solution to an elliptic equation with a non-linear boundary condition
with critical Sobolev exponent.

We propose a categorical setting for the study of the combinatorics of
rational numbers. We find combinatorial interpretation for the Bernoulli and
Euler numbers and polynomials.

For a continuous complex-valued function g on the real line without zeros,
several notions of a mean winding number are introduced. We give necessary
conditions for a Toeplitz operator with matrix-valued symbol G to be
semi-Fredholm in terms of mean winding numbers of det G. The matrix function G
is assumed to be continuous on the real line, and no other apriori assumptions
on it are made.

The ${\ell}^1$-convolution algebra of a semilattice is known to have trivial
cohom ology in degrees 1,2 and 3 whenever the coefficient bimodule is
symmetric. We ex tend this result to all cohomology groups of degree $\geq 1$
with symmetric coef ficients. Our techniques prove a stronger splitting result,
namely that the spli tting can be made natural with respect to the underlying
semilattice.

Let theta = p/q with p and q relatively prime and u and v a pair of unitaries
such that u v = e^{i theta} v u, where u and v generate the rotation C*-algebra
A_theta. Let h_{theta, lambda} = u + u^{-1} + lambda/2(v + v^{-1}) be the
almost Mathieu operator. By proving an identity of rational functions we show
that for q even, the constant term in the characteristic polynomial of
h_{\theta, \lambda} is (-1)^{q/2}(1 + (\lambda/2)^q) - (z_1^q + z_1^{-q} +
(\lambda/2)^q(z_2^q + z_2^{-q})).

We construct relative PEL type embeddings in mixed characteristic (0,2)
between hermitian orthogonal Shimura varieties of PEL type. We use this to
prove the existence of integral canonical models in unramified mixed
characteristic (0,2) of hermitian orthogonal Shimura varieties of PEL type.

Using the computational algebra system GAP (http://www.gap-system.org) and
the GAP package LAGUNA (http://www.cs.st-andrews.ac.uk/~alexk/laguna.htm), we
checked that all 2-groups of order not greater than 32 are determined by
normalized unit groups of their modular group algebras over the field of two
elements.

We prove the existence of Cannon-Thurston maps for simply and doubly
degenerate surface Kleinian groups. As a consequence we prove that connected
limit sets of finitely generated Kleinian groups are locally connected.

We extend B. Hassett's theory of weighted stable pointed curves ([Has03]) to
weighted stable maps. The space of stability conditions is described
explicitly, and the wall-crossing phenomenon studied. This can be considered as
a non-linear analog of the theory of stability conditions in abelian and
triangulated categories.
  We introduce virtual fundamental classes and thus obtain weighted
Gromov-Witten invariants. We show that by including gravitational descendants,
one obtains an $\LL$-algebra as introduced in [LM04] as a generalization of a
cohomological field theory.

The F-thresholds are characteristic p analogs of the jumping coefficients for
multiplier ideals in characteristic zero. In this article we give an
alternative description of the F-thresholds of an ideal in a regular and
F--finite ring $R$. This enables us to settle two open questions posed in
[Mustata, Takagi, Watanabe: F-thresholds and Bernstein-Sato polynomials],
namely we show that the F-thresholds are rational and discrete.

Bounds for the Castelnuovo-Mumford regularity and Hilbert coefficients are
given in terms of the arithmetic degree (if the ring is reduced) or in terms of
the defining degrees. From this it follows that there exists only a finite
number of Hilbert functions associated to reduced algebras over an
algebraically closed field with a given arithmetic degree and dimension. A good
bound is also given for the Castelnuovo-Mumford regularity of initial ideals
which depends neither on term orders nor on the coordinates, and holds for any
field.

We propose a heuristic algorithm for fast computation of the Poincar\'{e}
series $P_n(t)$ of the invariants of binary forms of degree $n$, viewed as
rational functions. The algorithm is based on certain polynomial identities
which remain to be proved rigorously. By using it, we have computed the
$P_n(t)$ for $n\le30$.

Due to the orbifold singularities, the intersection numbers on the moduli
space of curves $\bar{\sM}_{g,n}$ are in general rational numbers rather than
integers. We study the properties of the denominators of these intersection
numbers and their relationship with the orders of automorphism groups of stable
curves. In particular, we prove a conjecture of Itzykson and Zuber. We also
present a conjectural multinomial type numerical property for Hodge integrals.

In this paper we establish a connection between the cohomology of a modular
Lie algebra and its p-envelopes. We also compute the cohomology of Zassenhaus
algebras and their minimal p-envelopes with coefficients in generalized baby
Verma modules and in simple modules over fields of characteristic p>2.

We use the Brill-Noether theory to prove the Green conjecture for exceptional
curves on K3 surfaces. Such curves count among the few ones having Clifford
dimension at least three. We obtain our result by adopting an infinitesimal
approach due to Pareschi, and using a degenerate version of a theorem due to
Hirschowitz-Ramanan-Voisin.

To every Hermitian vector bundle with connection over a compact Riemannian
manifold $M$ one can associate a corresponding connection Laplacian acting on
the sections of the bundle. We define analogous combinatorial metric dependent
Laplacians associated to triangulations of $M$ and prove that their spectra
converge, as the mesh of the triangulations approaches zero, to the spectrum of
the connection Laplacian.

The main subject of this work is the difference between the coarse moduli
space and the stack of hyperelliptic curves. We compute their Picard groups,
giving explicit description of the generators. We get an application to the
(non-)existence of a tautological family over the coarse moduli space.

Stanley's non-negativity theorem is at the heart of many of the results in
Ehrhart theory. In this paper, we analyze the root behavior of general
polynomials satisfying the conditions of Stanley's theorem and compare this to
the known root behavior of Ehrhart polynomials. We provide a possible
counterexample to a conjecture of the second author, M. Beck, J. De Loera, J.
Pfeifle, and R. Stanley, and contribute some experimental data as well.

We prove the nugatory crossing conjecture for fibered knots. We also show
that if a knot $K$ is $n$-adjacent to a fibered knot $K'$, for some $n>1$, then
either the genus of $K$ is larger than that of $K'$ or $K$ is isotopic to $K'$.

In this paper, we introduce a new class of monomial ideals, called $d$-fixed
ideals, which generalize the class of $p$-Borel ideals and show how some
results for $p$-Borel ideals can be transfered to this new class. In
particular, we give the form of a principal $d$-fixed ideal and we compute the
socle of factors of these ideals. This allowed us to give a generalization of
Pardue's formula,i.e. a formula of the regularity for a principal $d$-fixed
ideal.

A class of stochastic optimal control problems involving optimal stopping is
considered. Methods of Krylov are adapted to investigate the numerical
solutions of the corresponding normalized Bellman equations and to estimate the
rate of convergence of finite difference approximations for the optimal reward
functions.

Basic elements of integral calculus over algebras of iterated differential
forms, are presented. In particular, defining complexes for modules of integral
forms are described and the corresponding berezinians and complexes of integral
forms are computed. Various applications and the integral calculus over the
algebra $\Lambda_{\infty}$ will be discussed in subsequent notes.

For the multiple differential algebra of iterated differential forms (see
math.DG/0605113 and math.DG/0609287) on a diffiety (O,C) an analogue of
C-spectral sequence is constructed. The first term of it is naturally
interpreted as the algebra of secondary iterated differential forms on (O,C).
This allows to develop secondary tensor analysis on generic diffieties, some
simplest elements of which are sketched here. The presented here general theory
will be specified to infinite jet spaces and infinitely prolonged PDEs in
subsequent notes.

A linear map $\phi:{\mathcal A}\to {\mathcal B} $ between (Banach) algebras
is called 3-homomorphism if $\phi(abc)=\phi(a)\phi(b)\phi(c)$ for each $a, b, c
\in {\mathcal A}$. We investigate 3-homomorphisms on Banach algebras with
bounded approximate identities and establish in two ways that every involution
preserving homomorphism between $C^*$-algebras is norm decreasing.

We introduce the spin Hecke algebra, which is a q-deformation of the spin
symmetric group algebra, and its affine generalization. We establish an algebra
isomorphism which relates our spin (affine) Hecke algebras to the (affine)
Hecke-Clifford algebras of Olshanski and Jones-Nazarov. Relation between the
spin (affine) Hecke algebra and a nonstandard presentation of the usual
(affine) Hecke algebra is displayed, and the notion of covering (affine) Hecke
algebra is introduced to provide a link between these algebras. Various
algebraic structures for the spin (affine) Hecke algebra are established.

Let f :S\to B be a non locally trivial fibred surface. We prove a lower bound
for the slope of f depending increasingly from the relative irregularity of f
and the Clifford index of the general fibres.

This paper presents the non-linear generalization of a previous work on
matrix differential models. It focusses on the construction of approximate
solutions of first-order matrix differential equations Y'(x)=f(x,Y(x)) using
matrix-cubic splines. An estimation of the approximation error, an algorithm
for its implementation and illustrative examples for Sylvester and Riccati
matrix differential equations are given.

It is well known that R^N has subspaces of dimension proportional to N on
which the \ell_1 norm is equivalent to the \ell_2 norm; however, no explicit
constructions are known. Extending earlier work by Artstein--Avidan and Milman,
we prove that such a subspace can be generated using O(N) random bits.

We formulate a statistical analogy of regular Lagrange mechanics and Finsler
geometry derived from Grisha Perelman's functionals generalized for
nonholonomic Ricci flows. There are elaborated explicit constructions when
nonholonomically constrained flows of Riemann metrics result in Finsler like
configurations, and inversely, and geometric mechanics is modelled on Riemann
spaces with preferred nonholonomic frame structure.

We establish a bijective correspondence between gauge equivalence classes of
dynamical twists in a finite-dimensional Hopf algebra $H$ based on a finite
abelian group $A$ and equivalence classes of pairs $(K,
\{V_{\lambda}\}_{\lambda\in \hat{A}})$, where $K$ is an $H$-simple left
$H$-comodule semisimple algebra and $\{V_{\lambda}\}_{\lambda\in \hat{A}}$ is a
family of irreducible representations satisfying certain conditions. Our
results generalize the results obtained by Etingof-Nikshych on the
classification of dynamical twists in group algebras.

It is shown that for $A_\R(\D)$ functions $f_1$ and $f_2$ with $$
\inf_{z\in\bar{\D}}(\abs{f_1(z)}+\abs{f_2(z)})\geq\delta>0 $$ and $f_1$ being
positive on real zeros of $f_2$ then there exists $A_\R(\D)$ functions $g_2$
and $g_1,g_1^{-1}$ with and $$ g_1f_1+g_2f_2=1\quad\forall z\in\bar{\D}. $$
  This result is connected to the computation of the stable rank of the algebra
$A_\R(\D)$ and to Control Theory.

We develop a theory of reduction for generalized Kahler and hyper-Kahler
structures which uses the generalized Riemannian metric in an essential way,
and which is not described with reference solely to a single generalized
complex structure. We show that our construction specializes to the usual
theory of Kahler and hyper-Kahler reduction, and it gives a way to view usual
hyper-Kahler quotients in terms of generalized Kahler reduction.

We prove that the $d$-component of the generic initial ideal, with respect to
the reverse lexicographic order, of an ideal generated by a regular sequence of
homogeneous polynomials of degree $d$ is revlex in a particular, but important,
case. Using this property, we compute the generic initial ideal for several
complete intersection with strong Lefschetz property.

We extend the results of Denisov-Rakhmanov, Szego-Shohat-Nevai, and
Killip-Simon from asymptotically constant orthogonal polynomials on the real
line (OPRL) and unit circle (OPUC) to asymptotically periodic OPRL and OPUC.
The key tool is a characterization of the isospectral torus that is well
adapted to the study of perturbations.

The aim of this paper is to give a complete classification of irreducible
finite dimensional representations of the nonstandard q-deformation U'_q(so(n))
(which does not coincide with the Drinfeld-Jimbo quantum algebra U_q(so(n)) of
the universal enveloping algebra U(so(n,C)) of the Lie algebra so(n,C) when q
is not a root of unity. These representations are exhausted by irreducible
representations of the classical type and of the nonclassical type. Theorem on
complete reducibility of finite dimensional representations of U'_q(so(n)) is
proved.

In this paper, we prove the existence and uniqueness of a smooth solution to
a tamed 3D Navier-Stokes equation in the whole space. In particular, if there
exists a bounded smooth solution to the classical 3D Navier-Stokes equation,
then this solution satisfies our tamed equation. Moreover, using this
renormalized equation we can give a new construction for a suitable weak
solution of the classical 3D Navier-Stokes equation introduced in [Scheffer:
Hausdorff measure and the Navier-Stokes equations. Comm. Math. Phys., 1977] and
[Caffarelli, Kohn, Nirenberg: Partial regularity of suitable weak solutions of
the Navier-Stokes equations. Comm. Pure Appl. Math., 1982].

We compute necessary conditions on Yetter-Drinfeld modules over the groups
SL(2,Fq) and GL(2,Fq) to generate finite dimensional Nichols algebras. This is
a first step towards a classification of pointed Hopf algebras with a group of
group-likes isomorphic to one of these groups.

We define a family {$\gamma(P)$} of generalized Euler constants indexed by
finite sets of primes $P$ and study their distribution. These arise from
partial sums of reciprocals of integers not divisible by any prime in $P$. An
apparent monotonicity is investigated. We also prove that a certain property of
these numbers is equivalent to the Riemann Hypothesis.

In 1979, B. Shiffman conjectured that if f is an algebraically nondegenerate
holomorphic map of C into P^n and D_1,...,D_q are hypersurfaces in P^n in
general position, then the sum of the defects is at most n+1. This conjecture
was proved by M. Ru in 2004. In this paper, the Shiffman conjecture is proved
more generally in the case of slowly moving hypersurfaces in (weakly) general
position. Moreover, we introduce a truncation in the corresponding Second Main
Theorem, with an effective estimate on the truncation level, thus generalizing
a result of An-Phuong.

In the preceding note math.DG/0610917 the
$\Lambda_{k-1}\mathcal{C}$--spectral sequence, whose first term is composed of
\emph{secondary iterated differential forms}, was constructed for a generic
diffiety. In this note the zero and first terms of this spectral sequence are
explicitly computed for infinite jet spaces. In particular, this gives an
explicit description of secondary covariant tensors on these spaces and some
basic operations with them. On the basis of these results a description of the
$\Lambda_{k-1}\mathcal{C}$--spectral sequence for infinitely prolonged PDE's
will be given in the subsequent note.

It is shown that the moduli space of the noncommutative tori A admits a
natural desingularization by the group Ext (A, A). Namely, we prove that the
moduli space of pairs (A, Ext (A,A)) is homeomorphic to a punctured
two-dimensional sphere. The proof is based on a correspondence (a covariant
functor) between the complex and noncommutative tori.

The theme of the paper is the question of existence and basic structure of
transfer operators for endomorphisms of a unital C*-algebra. We establish a
complete description of non-degenerate transfer operators, characterize
complete transfer operators and clarify their role in crossed product
constructions. Also, we give necessary and sufficient conditions for existence
of transfer operators for commutative systems, and discuss their form for
endomorphisms of B(H) which is relevant to Kadison-Singer problem.

We prove universality at the edge for rescaled correlation functions of
Wigner random matrices in the limit $n\to +\infty$. As a corollary, we show
that, after proper rescaling, the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, etc. eigenvalues of Wigner
random hermitian (resp. real symmetric) matrix weakly converge to the
distributions established by Tracy and Widom in G.U.E. (G.O.E.) cases.

The quasi-relativistic harmonic oscillator bound states constructed by Znojil
(J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 29 (1999)2905) are investigated via a new methodical
proposal. Compared with those obtained by an anonymous referee (from a direct
numerical integration method)of Znojil's paper, our results appear to be more
favourable than those obtained by Znojil via quasi-perturbation, variational,
Hill-determinant and Riccati-Pade' methods. Bound states with larger angular
momenta l, are also constructed.

It is shown that the kernel of the Fock representation of a certain Wick
algebra with braided operator of coefficients T, || T ||<= 1, coincides with
the largest quadratic Wick ideal. Improved conditions on the operator T for the
Fock inner product to be strictly positive are given.

PT symmetric complex potential V(r) = - r^4 + i a r^3 + b r^2 + i c r + i d/r
+ e/r^2 is studied. Arbitrarily large multiplets of its closed bound-state
solutions with real energies are shown obtainable quasi-exactly (i.e., with a
certain relationship between their charges and energies) from a single
underlying finite-dimensional secular equation.

The standard eigenfunctions $\phi_{\lambda} = e^{i < \lambda, x >}$ on flat
tori $\R^n / L$ have $L^{\infty}$-norms bounded independently of the
eigenvalue. In the case of irrational flat tori, it follows that
$L^2$-normalized eigenfunctions have uniformly bounded $L^{\infty}$-norms.
Similar bases exist on other flat manifolds. Does this property characterize
flat manifolds? We give an affirmative answer for compact Riemannian manifolds
with completely integrable geodesic flows.

Different cases of sequences of the Laplace Transformations for the 2D
Schrodinger operator in the periodic magnetic field and electric potential are
considered. They lead to the exactly solvable operators with nonstandard
spectral properties including the double-periodic operators with algebraic
Fermi surface known from the periodic soliton theory. Two appendices are added.
In the Appendix I (the author - S. Novikov) two discretizations of the 2D
operators and Laplace transformations are constructed. In the Appendix II (the
authors - S. Novikov and I. Taimanov) some nonstandard 1D discrete operators
are constructed with very interesting spectral properties.

In a first part, we generalize a theorem for an holomorphic $\times $
anti-holomorphic integrand, in the case of 2 dimensional Fourier transform. In
the second part, we derive p-uple conformal integrals the integrand of which
are linear combination of holomorphic times holomorphic generalized
hypergeometric functions. The specific case $p=3$ is relevant to determine the
triple Pomeron vertex in QCD.

The pseudoperturbative shifted - l expansion technique PSLET [5,20] is
generalized for states with arbitrary number of nodal zeros. Interdimensional
degeneracies, emerging from the isomorphism between angular momentum and
dimensionality of the central force Schrodinger equation, are used to construct
part of the D - dimensional spiked harmonic oscillator bound - states. PSLET
results are found to compare excellenly with those from direct numerical
integration and generalized variational methods [1,2].

A general framework is presented which unifies the treatment of wavelet-like,
quasidistribution, and tomographic transforms. Explicit formulas relating the
three types of transforms are obtained. The case of transforms associated to
the symplectic and affine groups is treated in some detail. Special emphasis is
given to the properties of the scale-time and scale-frequency tomograms.
Tomograms are interpreted as a tool to sample the signal space by a family of
curves or as the matrix element of a projector.

We study a quantum mechanical potential introduced previously as a
conditionally exactly solvable (CES) model. Besides an analysis following its
original introduction in terms of the point canonical transformation, we also
present an alternative supersymmetric construction of it. We demonstrate that
from the three roots of the implicit cubic equation defining the bound-state
energy eigenvalues, there is always only one that leads to a meaningful
physical state. Finally we demonstrate that the present CES interaction is, in
fact, an exactly solvable Natanzon-class potential.

The Poincare'-Dulac normal form of a given resonant system is in general non
unique; given a specific normal form, one would like to further reduce it to a
simplest normal form. In this note we give an algorithm, based on the Lie
algebraic structure of the set of normal forms, to obtain this. The algorithm
can be applied under some condition, non generic but often met in applications;
when applicable, it only requires to solve linear equations, and is more
powerful than the one proposed in previous work by the same author [Lett. Math.
Phys. 42, 103-114; and Ann. I.H.P. 70, 461-514].

We show that there is a family Schroedinger operators with scaled potentials
which approximates the $\delta'$-interaction Hamiltonian in the norm-resolvent
sense. This approximation, based on a formal scheme proposed by Cheon and
Shigehara, has nontrivial convergence properties which are in several respects
opposite to those of the Klauder phenomenon.

The infinite series in Wick powers of a generalized free field are considered
that are convergent under smearing with analytic test functions and realize a
nonlocal extension of the Borchers equivalence classes. The nonlocal fields to
which they converge are proved to be asymptotically commuting, which serves as
a natural generalization of the relative locality of the Wick polynomials. The
proposed proof is based on exploiting the analytic properties of the vacuum
expectation values in x-space and applying the Cauchy--Poincare theorem.

We give criteria for finite dimensionality or infinite dimensionality of the
polynomial centralizer of the Lie algebra of a linear Lie group, in terms of
invariants and relative invariants of the group. In the finite dimensional
scenario some applications to normal forms and to certain equations with
fundamental solutions are presented.

We present a generalization of the Fefferman-de la Llave decomposition of the
Coulomb potential to quite arbitrary radial functions $V$ on $R^n$ going to
zero at infinity. This generalized decomposition can be used to extend previous
results on $N$-body quantum systems with Coulomb interaction to a more general
class of interactions. As an example of such an application we derive the high
density asymptotics of the ground state energy of jellium with Yukawa
interaction in the thermodynamic limit, using a correlation estimate by Graf
and Solovej.

Quantum Calogero-Sutherland model of $A_n$ type is completely integrable.
Using this fact, we give an elementary construction of lowering an raising
operators for the trigonometric case. This is similar, but more complicated
(due to the fact that the energy spectrum is not equidistant) than the
construction for the rational case.

The methods of statistical dynamics are applied to a fluid with 5 conserved
fields (the mass, the energy, and the three components of momentum) moving in a
given external potential. When the potential is zero, we recover a previously
derived system of parabolic differential equations, called "corrections to
fluid dynamics".

A new generalized formulation of the spectral condition is proposed for
quantum fields with highly singular infrared behavior whose vacuum correlation
functions are well defined only under smearing with analytic test functions in
momentum space. The Euclidean formulation of QFT developed by Osterwalder and
Schrader is extended to theories with infrared singular indefinite metric. The
corresponding generalization of the reconstruction theorem is obtained. The
fulfilment of the generalized spectral condition is verified for quantum fields
representable by infinite series in the Wick powers of indefinite metric free
fields.

In this note the long standing problem of the definition of a Poisson bracket
in the framework of a multisymplectic formulation of classical field theory is
solved. The new bracket operation can be applied to forms of arbitary degree.
Relevant examples are discussed and important properties are stated with proofs
sketched.

We consider a Pauli-Fierz Hamiltonian for a particle coupled to a photon
field. We discuss the effects of the increase of the binding energy and
enhanced binding through coupling to a photon field, and prove that both
effects are the results of the existence of the ground state of the self-energy
operator with total momentum $P = 0$.

We prove that the electronic density of atomic and molecular eigenfunctions
is smooth away from the nuclei. The result is proved without decay assumptions
on the eigenfunctions.

We show how to relate Schramm-Loewner Evolutions (SLE) to highest-weight
representations of infinite dimensional Lie Algebras using the conformal
restriction properties studied by Lawler, Schramm and Werner in the paper
arXiv:math.PR/0209343. This confirms the prediction from theoretical physics
and conformal field theory that two-dimensional critical systems are related to
such degenerate representations.

In this paper, a simple and unified method is developed that predicts the
relativistic alterations of physical measures when the behavior of a natural
system is characterized by means of a specific operator equation. Separation of
variables is the simple underlying procedure.

In this paper, the Eddington-Finkelstein transformation is used as an
illustration of how the problem of singularities or infinities can be removed
by application of nonstandard analysis to the Schwarzschild line element
(metric). The evolution of a gravitationally collapsing spherical body with
radius greater than but near to the Schwarzschild radius is also investigated.

The circular and Jacobi ensembles of random matrices have their eigenvalue
support on the unit circle of the complex plane and the interval $(0,1)$ of the
real line respectively. The averaged value of the modulus of the corresponding
characteristic polynomial raised to the power $2 \mu$ diverges, for $2\mu \le
-1$, at points approaching the eigenvalue support. Using the theory of
generalized hypergeometric functions based on Jack polynomials, the functional
form of the leading asymptotic behaviour is established rigorously. In the
circular ensemble case this confirms a conjecture of Berry and Keating.

The characteristic feature of the Kepler Problem is the existence of the
so-called Laplace--Runge--Lenz vector which enables a very simple discussion of
the properties of the orbit for the problem. It is found that there are many
classes of problems, some closely related to the Kepler Problem and others
somewhat remote, which share the possession of a conserved vector which plays a
significant r\^ole in the analysis of these problems.

One of the simplest pseudo-Hermitian models with real spectrum (viz.,
square-well on a real interval I of coordinates) is re-examined. A PT-symmetric
complex deformation C of I is introduced and shown tractable via an innovated
approach to matching conditions. The result is surprising: an arbitrarily small
deformation I -> C implies a sudden collapse (i.e., the spontaneous PT-symmetry
breaking) of virtually all the spectrum (i.e., up to its low-energy part).

This note presents techniques to analytically solve double integrals of the
dilogarithmic type which are of great importance in the perturbative treatment
of quantum field theory. In our approach divergent integrals can be calculated
similar to their convergent counterparts after identifying and isolating their
singular parts.

The boundary map in K-theory arising from the Wiener-Hopf extension of a
crossed product algebra with R is the Connes-Thom isomorphism. In this article
the Wiener Hopf extension is combined with the Heisenberg group algebra to
provide an elementary construction of a corresponding map on higher traces (and
cyclic cohomology). It then follows directly from a non-commutative Stokes
theorem that this map is dual w.r.t.Connes' pairing of cyclic cohomology with
K-theory. As an application, we prove equality of quantized bulk and edge
conductivities for the integer quantum Hall effect described by continuous
magnetic Schroedinger operators.

We consider the Laplacian in curved tubes of arbitrary cross-section rotating
together with the Frenet frame along curves in Euclidean spaces of arbitrary
dimension, subject to Dirichlet boundary conditions on the cylindrical surface
and Neumann conditions at the ends of the tube. We prove that the spectral
threshold of the Laplacian is estimated from below by the lowest eigenvalue of
the Dirichlet Laplacian in a torus determined by the geometry of the tube.

We study the macroscopic scaling and weak coupling limit for a random
Schroedinger equation on Z^3. We prove that the Wigner transforms of a large
class of "macroscopic" solutions converge in r-th mean to solutions of a linear
Boltzmann equation, for any finite value of r in R_+. This extends previous
results where convergence in expectation was established.

We study the presence of a logarithmic time scale in discrete approximations
of Sawtooth Maps on the 2--torus. The techniques used are suggested by quantum
mechanical similarities, and are based on a particular class of states on the
torus, that fulfill dynamical localization properties typical of quantum
Coherent States.

The paper investigates relations between the phase space structure of a
quantum field theory ("nuclearity") and the concept of pointlike localized
fields. Given a net of local observable algebras, a phase space condition is
introduced that allows a very detailed description of the theory's field
content. An appendix discusses noninteracting models as examples.

We apply the asymptotic iteration method (AIM) [J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 36,
11807 (2003)] to solve new classes of second-order homogeneous linear
differential equation. In particular, solutions are found for a general class
of eigenvalue problems which includes Schroedinger problems with Coulomb,
harmonic oscillator, or Poeschl-Teller potentials, as well as the special
eigenproblems studied recently by Bender et al [J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 34 9835
(2001)] and generalized in the present paper to higher dimensions.

We present Noether's second theorem for graded Lagrangian systems of even and
odd variables on an arbitrary body manifold X in a general case of BRST
symmetries depending on derivatives of dynamic variables and ghosts of any
finite order. As a preliminary step, Noether's second theorem for Lagrangian
systems on fiber bundles over X possessing gauge symmetries depending on
derivatives of dynamic variables and parameters of arbitrary order is proved.

The paper presents a model-independent, nonperturbative proof of operator
product expansions in quantum field theory. As an input, a recently proposed
phase space condition is used that allows a precise description of point field
structures. Based on the product expansions, we also define and analyze normal
products (in the sense of Zimmermann).

We study Hamiltonians with point interactions in spaces of vector-valued
functions. Using some information from the theory of quantum graphs we describe
a class of the operators which can be reduced to the direct sum of several
one-dimensional problems. It shown that such reduction is closely connected
with the invariance under channel permutations. Examples are provided by some
"model" interactions, in particular, the so-called delta, delta-prime, and the
Kirchhoff couplings.

We address the deformation quantization of generally parametrized systems
displaying a natural time variable. The purpose of this exercise is twofold:
first, to illustrate through a pedagogical example the potential of quantum
phase space methods in the context of constrained systems and particularly of
generally covariant systems. Second, to show that a causal representation for
quantum phase space quasidistributions can be easily achieved through general
parametrization. This result is succinctly discussed.

In this paper we obtain the asymptotic formulas of arbitrary order for the
Bloch eigenvalues and Bloch functions of the multidimensional polyharmonic
operator with periodic, with respect to arbitrary lattice, potential. Then we
prove that the number of gaps in the spectrum of the operator is finite. In
particular, we get the proof of the Bethe -Sommerfeld conjecture for arbitrary
dimension and arbitrary lattice.

Complete sets of bases of differential invariants, operators of invariant
differentiation and Lie determinants of continuous transformation groups acting
on the real plane are constructed. As a necessary preliminary, realizations of
finite-dimensional Lie algebras on the real plane are revisited.

The d-dimensional generalization of the point canonical transformation for a
quantum particle endowed with a position-dependent mass in Schrodinger equation
is described. Illustrative examples including; the harmonic oscillator,
Coulomb, spiked harmonic, Kratzer, Morse oscillator, Poschl-Teller and Hulthen
potentials are used as reference potentials to obtain exact energy eigenvalues
and eigenfunctions for target potentials at different position-dependent mass
settings.

Variational formulations of statics and dynamics of mechanical systems
controlled by external forces are presented as examples of variational
principles.

We show that it is possible to represent various descriptions of Quantum
Mechanics in geometrical terms. In particular we start with the space of
observables and use the momentum map associated with the unitary group to
provide an unified geometrical description for the different pictures of
Quantum Mechanics. This construction provides an alternative to the usual GNS
construction for pure states.

Topology of the isospectral variety of zero-diagonal Jacobi matrices is
investigated using the Volterra system.

In this paper we prove that the four-point function of massive
$\vp_4^4$-theory is continuous as a function of its independent external
momenta when posing the renormalization condition for the (physical) mass
on-shell. The proof is based on integral representations derived inductively
from the perturbative flow equations of the renormalization group. It closes a
longstanding loophole in rigorous renormalization theory in so far as it shows
the feasibility of a physical definition of the renormalized coupling.

We study linear perturbations of a self-similar wave map from Minkowski space
to the three-sphere which is conjectured to be linearly stable. Considering
analytic mode solutions of the evolution equation for the perturbations we
prove that there are no real unstable eigenvalues apart from the well-known
gauge instability.

We derive Euler-Lagrange type equations for fractional action-like integrals
of the calculus of variations which depend on the Riemann-Liouville derivatives
of order $(\alpha,\beta)$, $\alpha > 0$, $\beta > 0$, recently introduced by J.
Cresson and S. Darses. Some interesting consequences are obtained and
discussed.

We show that the concept of complete symmetry group introduced by Krause (J.
Math. Phys.35 (1994) 5734-5748) in the context of the Newtonian Kepler problem
has wider applicability, extending to the relativistic context of the Einstein
equations describing spherically symmetric bodies with certain conformal
Killing symmetries. We also provide a simple demonstration of the nonuniqueness
of the complete symmetry group.

We introduce a class of integrable $l$-field first-order lattices together
with corresponding Lax equations. These lattices may be represented as
consistency condition for auxiliary linear systems defined on sequences of
formal dressing operators. This construction provides simple way to build
lattice Miura transformations between one-field lattice and $l$-field ($l\ge
2$) ones. We show that the lattices pertained to above class is in some sense
compatible with KP flows and define the chains of constrained KP Lax operators.

We show how the Lie group analysis method can be used in order to obtain
first integrals of any system of ordinary differential equations.
  The method of reduction/increase of order developed by Nucci (J. Math. Phys.
37, 1772-1775 (1996)) is essential. Noether's theorem is neither necessary nor
considered. The most striking example we present is the relationship between
Lie group analysis and the famous first integral of the Kowalevski top.

Starting from the tri-Hamiltonian formulation of the Lagrange top in a
six-dimensional phase space, we discuss the possible reductions of the Poisson
tensors, the vector field and its Hamiltonian functions on a four-dimensional
space. We show that the vector field of the Lagrange top possesses, on the
reduced phase space, a quasi-bi-Hamiltonian formulation, which provides a set
of separation variables for the corresponding Hamilton-Jacobi equation.

Form factors are derived for a model describing the coherent Josephson
tunneling between two coupled Bose-Einstein condensates. This is achieved by
studying the exact solution of the model in the framework of the algebraic
Bethe ansatz. In this approach the form factors are expressed through
determinant representations which are functions of the roots of the Bethe
ansatz equations.

The procedure of Dirac reduction of Poisson operators on submanifolds is
discussed within a particularly useful special realization of the general
Marsden-Ratiu reduction procedure. The Dirac classification of constraints on
'first-class' constraints and 'second-class' constraints is reexamined.

We semiclassically derive the leading off-diagonal correction to the spectral
form factor of quantum systems with a chaotic classical counterpart. To this
end we present a phase space generalization of a recent approach for uniformly
hyperbolic systems (M. Sieber and K. Richter, Phys. Scr. T90, 128 (2001); M.
Sieber, J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 35, L613 (2002)). Our results coincide with
corresponding random matrix predictions. Furthermore, we study the transition
from the Gaussian orthogonal to the Gaussian unitary ensemble.

Two generalized Harry Dym equations, recently found by Brunelli, Das and
Popowicz in the bosonic limit of new supersymmetric extensions of the Harry Dym
hierarchy [J. Math. Phys. 44:4756--4767 (2003)], are transformed into
previously known integrable systems: one--into a pair of decoupled KdV
equations, the other one--into a pair of coupled mKdV equations from a
bi-Hamiltonian hierarchy of Kupershmidt.

We present a geometric description, based on the affine Weyl group
E_{6}^{(1)}, of two discrete analogues of the Painlev\'e VI equation, known as
the asymmetric q-P_{V} and asymmetric d-P_{IV}. This approach allows us to
describe in a unified way the evolution of the mapping along the independent
variable and along the various parameters (the latter evolution being the one
induced by the Schlesinger transformations). It turns out that both discrete
Painlev\'e equations exhibit the property of self-duality: the same equation
governs the evolution along any direction in the space of E_{6}^{(1)}.

We investigate the algebraic conditions the scattering data of short-range
perturbations of quasi-periodic finite-gap Jacobi operators have to satisfy. As
our main result we provide the Poisson-Jensen-type formula for the transmission
coefficient in terms of Abelian integrals on the underlying hyperelliptic
Riemann surface and give an explicit condition for its single-valuedness. In
addition, we establish trace formulas which relate the scattering data to the
conserved quantities in this case.

An algebraic definition of Gardner's deformations for completely integrable
bi-Hamiltonian evolutionary systems is formulated. The proposed approach
extends the class of deformable equations and yields new integrable
evolutionary and hyperbolic Liouville-type systems. An exactly solvable
two-component extension of the Liouville equation is found.

The theme of doing quantum mechanics on all abelian groups goes back to
Schwinger and Weyl. If the group is a vector space of finite dimension over a
non-archimedean locally compact division ring, it is of interest to examine the
structure of dynamical systems defined by Hamiltonians analogous to those
encountered over the field of real numbers. In this letter a path integral
formula for the imaginary time propagators of these Hamiltonians is derived.

The Casimir operators of a Lie algebra are in one-to-one correspondence with
the symmetric invariant tensors of the algebra. There is an infinite family of
Casimir operators whose members are expressible in terms of a number of
primitive Casimirs equal to the rank of the underlying group. A systematic
derivation is presented of a complete set of identities expressing
non-primitive symmetric tensors in terms of primitive tensors. Several examples
are given including an application to an exceptional Lie algebra.

We show that under the hypotheses of Strominger, Yau and Zaslow's paper, a
mirror partner of a K3 surface $X$ with a fibration in special Lagrangian tori
can be obtained by rotating the complex structure of $X$ within its
hyperk\"ahler family of complex structures. The same hypotheses force the
B-field to vanish.

This paper develops a theory for characterisation of DNA sequences based on
their measure representation. The measures are shown to be random cascades
generated by an infinitely divisible distribution. This probability
distribution is uniquely determined by the exponent function in the
multifractal theory of random cascades. Curve fitting to a large number of
complete genomes of bacteria indicates that the Gamma density function provides
an excellent fit to the exponent function, and hence to the probability
distribution of the complete genomes.

By the method of generalized spherical harmonic polynomials, the
Schr\"{o}dinger equation for a four-body system in $D$-dimensional space is
reduced to the generalized radial equations where only six internal variables
are involved. The problem on separating the rotational degrees of freedom from
the internal ones for a quantum $N$-body system in $D$ dimensions is generally
discussed.

By combining the definition of the Wigner distribution function (WDF) and the
matrix method of optical system modeling, we can evaluate the transformation of
the former in centered systems with great complexity. The effect of stops and
lens diameter are also considered and are shown to be responsible for
non-linear clipping of the resulting WDF in the case of coherent illumination
and non-linear modulation of the WDF when the illumination is incoherent. As an
example, the study of a single lens imaging systems illustrates the
applicability of the method.

It is shown that the set of all finitary consequence operators defined on any
nonempty language is a join-complete lattice. This result is applied to various
collections of physical theories to obtain an unrestricted supremum
unification.

We present the eigenvalues of the Casimir invariants for the type I quantum
superalgebras on any irreducible highest weight module.

We prove certain duality properties and present recurrence relations for a
four-parameter family of self-dual Koornwinder-Macdonald polynomials. The
recurrence relations are used to verify Macdonald's normalization conjectures
for these polynomials.

A higher spin generalization of the XYZ spin chain defined by the fusion
procedure is considered. Energy and momentum of the ground state and low-lying
excited states of the model are computed by means of an isomorphism between a
space of theta functions on which the Sklyanin algebra acts and a space
obtained by the fusion procedure.

A bosonic operator of U_q(osp(1|2)) that anticommutes with the fermionic
generators appears to be useful to describe the relations in the centre of
U_q(osp(1|2)) for q a root of unity (in the unrestricted specialisation). As in
the classical case, it also simplifies the classification of finite dimensional
irreducible representations.

Heckman and Opdam introduced a non-symmetric analogue of Jack polynomials
using Cherednik operators. In this paper, we derive a simple recursion formula
for these polynomials and formulas relating the symmetric Jack polynomials with
the non-symmetric ones. These formulas are then implemented by a closed
expression of symmetric and non-symmetric Jack polynomials in terms of certain
tableaux. The main application is a proof of a conjecture of Macdonald stating
certain integrality and positivity properties of Jack polynomials.

We give an elementary introduction to the theory of algebraic and topological
quantum groups (in the spirit of S. L. Woronowicz). In particular, we recall
the basic facts from Hopf (*-) algebra theory, theory of compact (matrix)
quantum groups and the theory of their actions on compact quantum spaces. We
also provide the most important examples, including the classification of
quantum SL(2)-groups, their real forms and quantum spheres. We also consider
quantum SL_q(N)-groups and quantum Lorentz groups.

We study a $q$-deformation for the semi-direct product of the symmetric group
$S_n$ with the Clifford algebra on $n$ anticommuting generators. We obtain a
$q$-version of the projective analogue for the classical Young symmetrizer
found by the second author [Adv. Math. 127(1997), 190-257]. Our main tool is an
analogue of the Hecke algebra of complex valued functions on the group $GL_{n}$
over a $p$-adic field relative to the Iwahori subgroup.

We show that the particle motion in Bohmian mechanics, given by the solution
of an ordinary differential equation, exists globally: For a large class of
potentials the singularities of the velocity field and infinity will not be
reached in finite time for typical initial values. A substantial part of the
analysis is based on the probabilistic significance of the quantum flux. We
elucidate the connection between the conditions necessary for global existence
and the self-adjointness of the Schr\"odinger Hamiltonian.

A mapping is obtained relating analytical radial Coulomb systems in any
dimension greater than one to analytical radial oscillators in any dimension.
This mapping, involving supersymmetry-based quantum-defect theory, is possible
for dimensions unavailable to conventional mappings. Among the special cases is
an injection from bound states of the three-dimensional radial Coulomb system
into a three-dimensional radial isotropic oscillator where one of the two
systems has an analytical quantum defect. The issue of mapping the continuum
states is briefly considered.

The kind of information provided by a measurement is determined in terms of
the correlation established between observables of the apparatus and the
measured system. Using the framework of quantum measurement theory, necessary
and sufficient conditions for a measurement interaction to produce strong
correlations are given and are found to be related to properties of the final
object and apparatus states. These general results are illustrated with
reference to the standard model of the quantum theory of measurement.

In this paper we prove a recent conjecture [Robnik M and Salasnich L 1997 J.
Phys. A: Math. Gen. 30 1719] about the convergence of the WKB series for the
angular momentum operator. We demonstrate that the WKB algorithm for the
angular momentum gives the exact quantization formula if all orders are summed.

Closed-form expressions for the singular-potential integrals <m| x^-alpha |n>
are obtained with respect to the Gol'dman and Krivchenkov eigenfunctions for
the singular potential V(x) = B x^2 + A/x^2, B > 0, A >= 0. These formulas are
generalizations of those found earlier by use of the odd solutions of the
Schroedinger equation with the harmonic oscillator potential [Aguilera-Navarro
et al, J. Math. Phys. 31, 99 (1990)].

We review Bohr's reasoning in the Bohr-Einstein debate on the photon box
experiment. The essential point of his reasoning leads us to an uncertainty
relation between the proper time and the rest mass of the clock. It is shown
that this uncertainty relation can be derived if only we take the fundamental
point of view that the proper time should be included as a dynamic variable in
the Lagrangian describing the system of the clock. Some problems and some
positive aspects of our approach are then discussed.

A class of short-range potentials on the line is considered as an
asymptotically vanishing phenomenological alternative to the popular confining
polynomials. We propose a method which parallels the analytic Hill-Taylor
description of anharmonic oscillators and represents all our Jost solutions
non-numerically, in terms of certain infinite hypergeometric-like series. In
this way the well known solvable Rosen-Morse and scarf models are generalized.

I propose a new version of the Rayleigh - Schr\"{o}dinger perturbation
method. It admits a lower triangular matrix in place of the usual diagonal
propagator. Illustrated on rational anharmonicities
polynomial}(x)/polynomial}(x), treated as perturbations of (quasi-)exact
anharmonic oscilators. In this sense the method works in an
intermediate-coupling regime and bridges the gap between the weak- and
strong-coupling expansions.

Suitable complexification of the well known solvable oscillators in one
dimension is shown to give the four exactly solvable models which combine the
shape- and PT-invariance.
  In version v2 the result is extended of the s-wave shape-invariant forces.

We present two possible criteria quantifying the degree of classicality of an
arbitrary (finite dimensional) dynamical system. The inputs for these criteria
are the classical dynamical structure of the system together with the quantum
and the classical data providing the two alternative descriptions of its
initial time configuration. It is proved that a general quantum system
satisfying the criteria up to some extend displays a time evolution consistent
with the classical predictions up to some degree and thus it is argued that the
criteria provide a suitable measure of classicality. The features of the
formalism are illustrated through two simple examples.

I investigate dense coding with a general mixed state on the Hilbert space
$C^{d}\otimes C^{d}$ shared between a sender and receiver. The following result
is proved. When the sender prepares the signal states by mutually orthogonal
unitary transformations with equal {\it a priori} probabilities, the capacity
of dense coding is maximized. It is also proved that the optimal capacity of
dense coding $\chi ^{*}$ satisfies $E_{R}(\rho)\leq \chi ^{*}\leq E_{R}(\rho
)+\log_{2}d$, where $E_{R}(\rho)$ is the relative entropy of entanglement of
the shared entangled state.

The fidelity of two pure states (also known as transition probability) is a
symmetric function of two operators, and well-founded operationally as an event
probability in a certain preparation-test pair. Motivated by the idea that the
fidelity is the continuous quantum extension of the combinatorial equality
function, we enquire whether there exists a symmetric operational way of
obtaining the fidelity. It is shown that this is impossible. Finally, we
discuss the optimal universal approximation by a quantum operation.

The role of the off-diagonal density matrix elements of the entangled pair is
investigated in quantum teleportation of a qbit. The dependence between them
and the off-diagonal elements of the teleported density matrix is shown to be
linear. In this way the ideal quantum teleportation is related to an entirely
classical communication protocol: the one-time pad cypher. The latter can be
regarded as the classical counterpart of Bennett's quantum teleportation
scheme. The quantum-to-classical transition is demonstrated on the statistics
of a gedankenexperiment.

We provide several schemes to construct the continuous-variable SWAP gate and
present a Hermitian generalized many-body continuous controlled^n-NOT gate. We
introduce and study the hybrid controlled-NOT gate and controlled-SWAP gate,
and physical realizations of them are discussed in trapped-ion systems. These
continuous-variable and hybrid quantum gates may be used in the corresponding
continuous-variable and hybrid quantum computations.

Results obtained in two recent papers, \cite{Kaszlikowski} and \cite{Durt},
seem to indicate that the nonlocal character of the correlations between the
outcomes of measurements performed on entangled systems separated in space is
not robust in the presence of noise. This is surprising, since entanglement
itself is robust. Here we revisit this problem and argue that the class of
gedanken-experiments considered in \cite{Kaszlikowski} and \cite{Durt} is too
restrictive. By considering a more general class, involving sequences of
measurements, we prove that the nonlocal correlations are in fact robust.

We study the chaotic behaviour and the quantum-classical correspondence for
the baker's map. Correspondence between quantum and classical expectation
values is investigated and it is numerically shown that it is lost at the
logarithmic timescale. The quantum chaos degree is computed and it is
demonstrated that it describes the chaotic features of the model. The
correspondence between classical and quantum chaos degrees is considered.

A description of destruction of states on the grounds of quantum mechanics
rather than quantum field theory is proposed. Several kinds of maps called
supertraces are defined and used to describe the destruction procedure. The
introduced algorithm can be treated as a supplement to the von Neumann-Lueders
measurement. The discussed formalism may be helpful in a description of EPR
type experiments and in quantum information theory.

This paper concerns the coherent states on spheres studied by the authors in
[J. Math. Phys. 43 (2002), 1211-1236]. We show that in the odd-dimensional case
the coherent states on the sphere approach the classical Gaussian coherent
states on Euclidean space as the radius of the sphere tends to infinity.

This paper continues the study of stochastic maps, or channels, which break
entanglement. We give a detailed description of entanglement-breaking qubit
channels, and show that such maps are precisely the convex hull of those known
as classical-quantum channels. We also review the complete positivity
conditions in a canonical parameterization and show how they lead to
entanglement-breaking conditions.

Maths-type q-deformed coherent states with $q > 1$ allow a resolution of
unity in the form of an ordinary integral. They are sub-Poissonian and
squeezed. They may be associated with a harmonic oscillator with minimal
uncertainties in both position and momentum and are intelligent coherent states
for the corresponding deformed Heisenberg algebra.

We consider the convex sets of QO's (quantum operations) and POVM's (positive
operator valued measures) which are covariant under a general
finite-dimensional unitary representation of a group. We derive necessary and
sufficient conditions for extremality, and give general bounds for ranks of the
extremal POVM's and QO's. Results are illustrated on the basis of simple
examples.

We introduce a novel class of higher-order, three-mode states called
K-dimensional trio coherent states. We study their mathematical properties and
prove that they form a complete set in a truncated Fock space. We also study
their physical content by explicitly showing that they exhibit nonclassical
features such as oscillatory number distribution, sub-poissonian statistics,
Cauchy-Schwarz inequality violation and phase-space quantum interferences.
Finally, we propose an experimental scheme to realize the state with K=2 in the
quantized vibronic motion of a trapped ion.

We address a mathematical and physical status of exotic (like e.g. fractal)
wave packets and their quantum dynamics. To this end, we extend the formal
meaning of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation beyond the domain of the Hamiltonian.
The dynamical importance of the finite mean energy condition is elucidated.

The partial scaling transform of the density matrix for multiqubit states is
introduced to detect entanglement of quantum states. The transform contains
partial transposition as a special case. The scaling transform corresponds to
partial time scaling of subsystem (or partial Planck's constant scaling) which
was used to formulate recently separability criterion for continous variables.A
measure of entanglement which is a generalization of negativity measure is
introduced being based on tomographic probability description of spin states.

We prove that the empirical distribution of crossings of a "detector''
surface by scattered particles converges in appropriate limits to the
scattering cross section computed by stationary scattering theory. Our result,
which is based on Bohmian mechanics and the flux-across-surfaces theorem, is
the first derivation of the cross section starting from first microscopic
principles.

We consider the problem of estimating the ensemble average of an observable
on an ensemble of equally prepared identical quantum systems. We show that,
among all kinds of measurements performed jointly on the copies, the optimal
unbiased estimation is achieved by the usual procedure that consists in
performing independent measurements of the observable on each system and
averaging the measurement outcomes.

We solve the fundamental quantum error correction problem for bi-unitary
channels on two-qubit Hilbert space. By solving an algebraic compression
problem, we construct qubit codes for such channels on arbitrary dimension
Hilbert space, and identify correctable codes for Pauli-error models not
obtained by the stabilizer formalism. This is accomplished through an
application of a new tool for error correction in quantum computing called the
``higher-rank numerical range''. We describe its basic properties and discuss
possible further applications.

We propose a high order numerical decomposition of exponentials of hermitean
operators in terms of a product of exponentials of simple terms, following an
idea which has been pioneered by M. Suzuki, however implementing it for complex
coefficients. We outline a convenient fourth order formula which can be written
compactly for arbitrary number of noncommuting terms in the Hamiltonian and
which is superiour to the optimal formula with real coefficients, both in
complexity and accuracy. We show asymptotic stability of our method for
sufficiently small time step and demonstrate its efficiency and accuracy in
different numerical models.

The long time behavior of the reduced time evolution operator for unstable
multilevel systems is studied based on the N-level Friedrichs model in the
presence of a zero energy resonance.The latter means the divergence of the
resolvent at zero energy. Resorting to the technique developed by Jensen and
Kato [Duke Math. J. 46, 583 (1979)], the zero energy resonance of this model is
characterized by the zero energy eigenstate that does not belong to the Hilbert
space. It is then shown that for some kinds of the rational form factors the
logarithmically slow decay of the reduced time evolution operator can be
realized.

We argue about a conceptual approach to quantum formalism. Starting from
philosophical conjectures (Platonism, Idealism and Realism) as basic ontic
elements (namely: math world, data world, and state of matter), we will analyze
the quantum superposition principle. This analysis bring us to demonstrate that
the basic assumptions affect in different ways:(a) the general problem of the
information and computability about a system, (b) the nature of the math tool
utilized and (c) the correspondent physical reality.

In this paper a notion of entropy transmission of quantum channels is
introduced as a natural extension of Ohya's entropy. Here by quantum channel is
meant unital completely positive mappings (ucp) of $B(H)$ into itself, where
$H$ is an infinite dimensional Hilbert space. Using a representation theorem of
ucp mapping we associate to every ucp map a uniquely determined state, and
prove that entropy of ucp map is less then Ohya's entropy of the associated
state.

Bilinear structure for the discrete Painlev\'e I equation is investigated.
The solution on semi-infinite lattice is given in terms of the Casorati
determinant of discrete Airy function. Based on this fact, the discrete
Painlev\'e I equation is naturally extended to a discrete coupled system.
Corresponding matrix model is also mentioned.

The discrete Painlev\'e III equation is investigated based on the bilinear
formalism. It is shown that it admits the solutions expressed by the Casorati
determinant whose entries are given by the discrete Bessel function. Moreover,
based on the observation that these discrete Bessel functions are transformed
to the $q$-Bessel functions by a simple variable transformation, we present a
$q$-difference analogue of the Painlev\'e III equation.

Two types of determinant representations of the rational solutions for the
Painlev\'e II equation are discussed by using the bilinear formalism. One of
them is a representation by the Devisme polynomials, and another one is a
Hankel determinant representation. They are derived from the determinant
solutions of the KP hierarchy and Toda lattice, respectively.

It is shown that a class of important integrable nonlinear evolution
equations in (2+1) dimensions can be associated with the motion of space curves
endowed with an extra spatial variable or equivalently, moving surfaces.
Geometrical invariants then define topological conserved quantities. Underlying
evolution equations are shown to be associated with a triad of linear
equations. Our examples include Ishimori equation and Myrzakulov equations
which are shown to be geometrically equivalent to Davey-Stewartson and Zakharov
-Strachan (2+1) dimensional nonlinear Schr\"odinger equations respectively.

We obtain the functional relations for the eigenvalues of the transfer matrix
of the sl(3) chiral Potts model for q^2=-1. For the homogeneous model in both
directions a solution of these functional relations can be written in terms of
roots of Bethe ansatz-like equations. In addition, a direct nested Bethe ansatz
has also been developed for this case.

This is a brief overview of the status of the theory of elliptic
hypergeometric functions to the end of 2012 written as a complementary chapter
to the Russian edition of the book by G.E. Andrews, R. Askey, and R. Roy,
Special Functions, Encycl. of Math. Appl. 71, Cambridge Univ. Press, 1999.

It is shown that product BMO of Chang and Fefferman, defined on the product
of Euclidean spaces can be characterized by the multiparameter commutators of
Riesz transforms. This extends a classical one-parameter result of Coifman,
Rochberg, and Weiss, and at the same time extends the work of Lacey and
Ferguson and Lacey and Terwilleger on multiparameter commutators with Hilbert
transforms. The method of proof requires the real-variable methods throughout,
which is new in the multi-parameter context.

We introduce a method that generates invariant functions from perturbative
classical field theories depending on external parameters. Applying our methods
to several field theories such as abelian BF, Chern-Simons and 2-dimensional
Yang-Mills theory, we obtain, respectively, the linking number for embedded
submanifolds in compact varieties, the Gauss' and the second Milnor's invariant
for links in S^3, and invariants under area-preserving diffeomorphisms for
configurations of immersed planar curves.

I prove a basic inequality for Schatten q-norms of quantum states on a
finite-dimensional bipartite Hilbert space H_1\otimes H_2: 1+||\rho||_q \ge
||\trace_1\rho||_q + ||\trace_2\rho||_q. This leads to a proof--in the finite
dimensional case--of Raggio's conjecture (G.A. Raggio, J. Math. Phys.\
\textbf{36}, 4785--4791 (1995)) that the q-entropies
S_q(\rho)=(1-\trace[\rho^q])/(q-1) are subadditive for q > 1; that is, for any
state \rho, S_q(\rho) is not greater than the sum of the S_q of its reductions,
S_q(\rho) \le S_q(\trace_1\rho)+S_q(\trace_2\rho).

We use functoriality of tropicalization and the geometry of projections of
subvarieties of tori to show that the fibers of the tropicalization map are
dense in the Zariski topology. For subvarieties of tori over fields of
generalized power series, points in each tropical fiber are obtained
"constructively" using Kedlaya's transfinite version of Newton's method.

We give a complete list of normal forms for the 2-dimensional metrics that
admit a transitive Lie pseudogroup of geodesic-preserving transformations and
we show that these normal forms are mutually non-isometric. This solves a
problem posed by Sophus Lie.

We adapt Schaback's error doubling trick [R. Schaback. Improved error bounds
for scattered data interpolation by radial basis functions. Math. Comp.,
68(225):201--216, 1999.] to give error estimates for radial interpolation of
functions with smoothness lying (in some sense) between that of the usual
native space and the subspace with double the smoothness. We do this for both
bounded subsets of R^d and spheres. As a step on the way to our ultimate goal
we also show convergence of pseudoderivatives of the interpolation error.

Kumjian and Pask introduced an aperiodicity condition for higher rank graphs.
We present a detailed analysis of when this occurs in certain rank 2 graphs.
When the algebra is aperiodic, we give another proof of the simplicity of
$\ca(\Fth)$. The periodic C*-algebras are characterized, and it is shown that
$\ca(\Fth) \simeq \rC(\bT) \otimes \fA$ where $\fA$ is a simple C*-algebra.

A Chevalley type integral basis for the ortho-symplectic Lie superalgebra is
constructed. The simple modules of the ortho-symplectic supergroup over an
algebraically closed field of prime characteristic not equal to 2 are
classified, where a key combinatorial ingredient comes from the Mullineux
conjecture on modular representations of the symmetric group. A Steinberg
tensor product theorem for the ortho-symplectic supergroup is also obtained.

We regard a contact metric manifold whose Reeb vector field belongs to the
$(\kappa,\mu)$-nullity distribution as a bi-Legendrian manifold and we study
its canonical bi-Legendrian structure. Then we characterize contact metric
$(\kappa,\mu)$-spaces in terms of a canonical connection which can be naturally
defined on them.

Given $A\in\Omega_n,$ the $n^2$-dimensional spectral unit ball, we show that
$B$ is a "generalized" tangent vector at $A$ to an entire curve in $\Omega_n$
if and only if $B$ is in the tangent cone $C_A$ to the isospectral variety at
$A.$ In the case of $\Omega_3,$ the zero set of this metric is completely
described.

We study decompositions of operator measures and more general sesquilinear
form measures $E$ into linear combinations of positive parts, and their
diagonal vector expansions. The underlying philosophy is to represent $E$ as a
trace class valued measure of bounded variation on a new Hilbert space related
to $E$. The choice of the auxiliary Hilbert space fixes a unique decomposition
with certain properties, but this choice itself is not canonical. We present
relations to Naimark type dilations and direct integrals.

We give an explicit formula (i.e., a formal stationary phase formula) for the
local Fourier-Laplace transform of a formal germ of meromorphic connection of
one complex variable with a possibly irregular singularity. This is a complex
analogue of the formulas in the preprint math/0702436v1.

A covariant functor from the category of the complex tori to the category of
the Effros-Shen algebras is constructed. The functor maps isomorphic complex
tori to the stably isomorphic Effros-Shen algebras. Our construction is based
on the Teichmueller theory of the Riemann surfaces.

For an ideal D-dimensional Fermi gas under generic external confinement we
derive the correcting coefficient $(D-2)/3D$ of the von Weizsacker term in the
kinetic energy density. To obtain this coefficient we use the Kirzhnits
semiclassical expansion of the number operator up to the second order in the
Planck constant $\hbar$. Within this simple and direct approach we determine
the differential equation of the density profile and the density functional of
the Fermi gas. In the case D=2 we find that the Kirzhnits gradient corrections
vanish to all order in $\hbar$.

We prove: a properly embedded, genus-one minimal surface that is asymptotic
to a helicoid and that contains two straight lines must intersect that helicoid
precisely in those two lines. In particular, the two lines divide the surface
into two connected components that lie on either side of the helicoid. We prove
an analogous result for periodic helicoid-like surfaces. We also give a simple
condition guaranteeing that an immersed minimal surface with finite genus and
bounded curvature is asymptotic to a helicoid at infinity.

Based on the Lifshitz theory we show that the illumination of one (Si) plate
in the three-layer systems Au--ethanol--Si, Si--ethanol--Si and
$\alpha$-Al${}_2$O${}_3$--ethanol--Si with laser pulses can change the Casimir
attraction to Casimir repulsion and vice versa. The proposed effect opens novel
opportunities in nanotechnology to actuate the periodic movement in electro-
and optomechanical micromachines based entirely on the zero-point oscillations
of the quantum vacuum without the action of mechanical springs.

Let Pd,n denote the space of all real polynomials of degree at most d on R^n.
We prove a new estimate for the logarithmic measure of the sublevel set of a
polynomial P in Pd,1. Using this estimate, we prove a sharp estimate for a
singular oscillatory integral on R^n.

We study the action of the mapping class group M(F) on the complex of curves
of a non-orientable surface F. We obtain, by using a result of K. S. Brown, a
presentation for M(F) defined in terms of the mapping class groups of the
complementary surfaces of collections of curves, provided that F is not
sporadic, i.e. the complex of curves of F is simply connected. We also compute
a finite presentation for the mapping class group of each sporadic surface.

We give upper and lower bounds on the volume of a tubular neighborhood of the
nodal set of an eigenfunction of the Laplacian on a real analytic closed
Riemannian manifold M. As an application we consider the question of
approximating points on M by nodal sets, and explore analogy with approximation
by rational numbers.

The aim of this paper is to show that various known characterizations of
traces on classical pseudodifferentials operators (PsiDOs) can actually be
obtained by very elementary considerations on PsiDOs, using only basic
properties of these operators. Thereby, we give a unified treatment of the
determinations of the space of traces (i) on PsiDOs of noninteger orders or of
regular parity-class, (ii) on integer order PsiDOs, (iii) on nonpositive order
PsiDOs in dimension greather than or equal to 2, and (iv) on nonpositive order
PsiDOs in dimension 1.

We prove non-Archimedean analogs of results of Noguchi and Winkelmann showing
algebraic degeneracy of rigid analytic maps to projective varieties omitting an
effective divisor with sufficiently many irreducible components relative to the
rank of the group they generate in the Neron-Severi group of the variety.

The moduli space of smooth real binary octics has five connected components.
They parametrize the real binary octics whose defining equations have 0, 1,
..., 4 complex-conjugate pairs of roots respectively. We show that the
GIT-stable completion of each of these five components admits the structure of
an arithmetic real hyperbolic orbifold. The corresponding monodromy groups are,
up to commensurability, discrete hyperbolic reflection groups, and their
Vinberg diagrams are computed. We conclude with a simple proof that the moduli
space of GIT-stable real binary octics itself cannot be a real hyperbolic
orbifold.

Exact solutions of Einstein equations with null Riemman-Christoffel curvature
tensor everywhere, except on a hypersurface, are studied using quantum
particles obeying the Klein-Gordon equation. We consider the particular cases
when the curvature is represented by a Dirac delta function with support either
on a sphere or on a cylinder (spherical and cylindrical shells). In particular,
we analyze the necessity of extra boundary conditions on the shells.

We show that Chen-Ruan cohomology is a homotopy invariant in certain cases.
We introduce the notion of a T-representation homotopy, which is a stringent
form of homotopy under which Chen-Ruan cohomology is invariant. We show that
while hyperkahler quotients of the cotangent bundle to a complex vector space
by a circle S^1 (here termed weighted hyperprojective spaces) are homotopy
equivalent to weighted projective spaces, they are not S^1-representation
homotopic. Indeed, we show that their Chen-Ruan cohomology rings (over the
rationals) are distinct.

Mutually unbiased bases in Hilbert spaces of finite dimensions are closely
related to the quantal notion of complementarity. An alternative proof of
existence of a maximal collection of N+1 mutually unbiased bases in Hilbert
spaces of prime dimension N is given by exploiting the finite Heisenberg group
(also called the Pauli group) and the action of SL(2,Z_N) on finite phase space
Z_N x Z_N implemented by unitary operators in the Hilbert space. Crucial for
the proof is that, for prime N, Z_N is also a finite field.

The Fr\"olicher spectral sequence of a compact complex manifold $X$ measures
the difference between Dolbeault cohomology and de Rham cohomology.
  We construct for $n\geq 2$ nilmanifolds with left-invariant complex structure
$X_n$ such that the $n$-th differential $d_n$ does not vanish. This replaces an
earlier incorrect example by the second author.

This paper is concerned with the discrete spectrum of the self-adjoint
realization of the semi-classical Schr\"odinger operator with constant magnetic
field and associated with the de Gennes (Fourier/Robin) boundary condition. We
derive an asymptotic expansion of the number of eigenvalues below the essential
spectrum (Weyl-type asymptotics). The methods of proof relies on results
concerning the asymptotic behavior of the first eigenvalue obtained in a
previous work [A. Kachmar, J. Math. Phys. Vol. 47 (7) 072106 (2006)].

A new approach leading to the formulation of the Hamilton-Jacobi equation for
field theories is investigated within the framework of jet-bundles and
multi-symplectic manifolds. An algorithm associating classes of solutions to
given sets of boundary conditions of the field equations is provided. The paper
also puts into evidence the intrinsic limits of the Hamilton-Jacobi method as
an algorithm to determine families of solutions of the field equations, showing
how the choice of the boundary data is often limited by compatibility
conditions.

The physical reasons why the Drude dielectric function is not compatible with
the Lifshitz formula, as opposed to the generalized plasma-like permittivity,
are presented. Essentially, the problem is connected with the finite size of
metal plates. It is shown that the Lifshitz theory combined with the
generalized plasma-like permittivity is thermodynamically consistent.

We prove that the kernel of the natural action of the modular group on the
center of the Drinfel'd double of a semisimple Hopf algebra is a congruence
subgroup. To do this, we introduce a class of generalized Frobenius-Schur
indicators and endow it with an action of the modular group that is compatible
with the original one.

V.I. Arnold [Russian Math. Surveys, 26 (no. 2), 1971, pp. 29-43] gave a
miniversal deformation of matrices of linear operators; that is, a simple
canonical form, to which not only a given square matrix A, but also the family
of all matrices close to A, can be reduced by similarity transformations
smoothly depending on the entries of matrices. We study miniversal deformations
of quiver representations and obtain a miniversal deformation of matrices of
chains of linear mappings.

A canonical connection is attached to any k-symplectic manifold. We study the
properties of this connection and its geometric applications to k-symplectic
manifolds. In particular we prove that, under some natural assumption, any
ksymplectic manifold admits an Ehresmann connection, discussing some
corollaries of this result, and we find vanishing theorems for characteristic
classes on a k-symplectic manifold.

An analytical-numerical analysis of the singular self-adjoint spectral
problem for a system of three linear ordinary second-order differential
equations defined on the entire real exis is presented. This problem comes to
existence in the nonlinear field theory. The dependence of the differential
equations on the spectral parameter is nonlinear, which results in a quadratic
operator Hermitian pencil.

Using a modified WKB approach, we present a rigorous semi-classical analysis
for solutions of nonlinear Schroedinger equations with rotational forcing. This
yields a rigorous justification for the hydrodynamical system of rotating
superfluids. In particular it is shown that global-in-time semi-classical
convergence holds whenever the limiting hydrodynamical system has global smooth
solutions and we also discuss the semi-classical dynamics of several physical
quantities describing rotating superfluids.

The notion of rational spin double affine Hecke algebras (sDaHa) and rational
double affine Hecke-Clifford algebras (DaHCa) associated to classical Weyl
groups are introduced. The basic properties of these algebras such as the PBW
basis and Dunkl operator representations are established. An algebra
isomorphism relating the rational DaHCa to the rational sDaHa is obtained. We
further develop a link between the usual rational Cherednik algebra and the
rational sDaHa by introducing a notion of rational covering double affine Hecke
algebras.

We use a finite element approach based on Galerkin method to obtain
approximate steady state solutions of the thermistor problem with temperature
dependent electrical conductivity.

Let $G$ be a discrete group. We give a decomposition theorem for the
Hochschild cohomology of $\ell^1(G)$ with coefficients in certain $G$-modules.
Using this we show that if $G$ is commutative-transitive, the canonical
inclusion of bounded cohomology of $G$ into simplicial cohomology of
$\ell^1(G)$ is an isomorphism.

Invariant correlation functions for ${\rm SO}(1,N)$ hyperbolic sigma-models
are investigated. The existence of a large $N$ asymptotic expansion is proven
on finite lattices of dimension $d \geq 2$. The unique saddle point
configuration is characterized by a negative gap vanishing at least like 1/V
with the volume. Technical difficulties compared to the compact case are
bypassed using horospherical coordinates and the matrix-tree theorem.

We study the Newton stratification on SL_3(F), where F is a Laurent power
series field. We provide a formula for the codimensions of the Newton strata
inside each component of the affine Bruhat decomposition on SL_3(F). These
calculations are related to the study of certain affine Deligne-Lusztig
varieties. In particular, we describe a method for determining which of these
varieties is non-empty in the case of SL_3(F).

We show that the integrated density of states of the almost Mathieu operator
is absolutely continuous if and only if the coupling is non-critical. We deduce
for subcritical coupling that the spectrum is purely absolutely continuous for
almost every phase, settling the measure-theoretical case of Problem 6 of Barry
Simon's list of Schr\"odinger operator problems for the twenty-first century.

We introduce the notion of a weighted $\delta$-vector of a lattice polytope.
Although the definition is motivated by motivic integration, we study weighted
$\delta$-vectors from a combinatorial perspective. We present a version of
Ehrhart Reciprocity and prove a change of variables formula. We deduce a new
geometric interpretation of the coefficients of the Ehrhart $\delta$-vector.
More specifically, they are sums of dimensions of orbifold cohomology groups of
a toric stack.

Let $(\A, \alpha)$ and $(\B, \beta)$ be C*-dynamical systems and assume that
$\A$ is a separable simple C*-algebra and that $\alpha$ and $\beta$ are
*-automorphisms. Then the semicrossed products $\A \times_{\alpha} \bbZ^{+}$
and $\B \times_{\beta} \bbZ^{+}$ are isometrically isomorphic if and only if
the dynamical systems $(\A, \alpha)$ and $(\B, \beta)$ are outer conjugate.

We address the problem of second order conformal deformation of spacelike
surfaces in compactified Minkowski 4-space. We explain the construction of the
exterior differential system of conformal deformations and discuss its general
and singular solutions. In particular, we show that isothermic surfaces are
singular solutions of the system, which implies that a generic second order
deformable surface is not isothermic. This differs from the situation in
3-dimensional conformal geometry, where isothermic surfaces coincide with
deformable surfaces.

An $x$-pseudopower to base $g$ is a positive integer which is not a power of
$g$ yet is so modulo $p$ for all primes $p\le x$. We improve an upper bound for
the least such number due to E. Bach, R. Lukes, J. Shallit, and H. C. Williams.
The method is based on a combination of some bounds of exponential sums with
new results about the average behaviour of the multiplicative order of $g$
modulo prime numbers.

An algorithmic method using conservation law multipliers is introduced that
yields necessary and sufficient conditions to find invertible mappings of a
given nonlinear PDE to some linear PDE and to construct such a mapping when it
exists. Previous methods yielded such conditions from admitted point or contact
symmetries of the nonlinear PDE. Through examples, these two linearization
approaches are contrasted.

Quasi-alternating links are homologically thin for both Khovanov homology and
knot Floer homology. We show that every quasi-alternating link gives rise to an
infinite family of quasi-alternating links obtained by replacing a crossing
with an alternating rational tangle. Consequently, we show that many pretzel
links are quasi-alternating, and we determine the thickness of Khovanov
homology for "most" pretzel links with arbitrarily many strands.

We make an overview of spectral-geometric effects of twisting and bending in
quantum waveguides modelled by the Dirichlet Laplacian in an unbounded
three-dimensional tube of uniform cross-section. We focus on the existence of
Hardy-type inequalities in twisted tubes of non-circular cross-section.

In a recent paper Liu considered the complete Schwarzschild interior and
exterior solution in harmonic coordinates. There he argued about the necessity
to keep an integration constant, in contrast with previous treatments. The
purpose of this comment is to show that the above conclusion cannot be traced
from the matching conditions between the vacuum exterior and the uniform
density interior perfect fluid, as claimed.

For any lattice polytope $P$, we consider an associated polynomial
$\bar{\delta}_{P}(t)$ and describe its decomposition into a sum of two
polynomials satisfying certain symmetry conditions. As a consequence, we
improve upon known inequalities satisfied by the coefficients of the Ehrhart
$\delta$-vector of a lattice polytope. We also provide combinatorial proofs of
two results of Stanley that were previously established using techniques from
commutative algebra. Finally, we give a necessary numerical criterion for the
existence of a regular unimodular lattice triangulation of the boundary of a
lattice polytope.

We construct and apply Strominger-Yau-Zaslow mirror transformations to
understand the geometry of the mirror symmetry between toric Fano manifolds and
Landau-Ginzburg models.

We define a family of generalizations of the two-variable quandle polynomial.
These polynomial invariants generalize in a natural way to eight-variable
polynomial invariants of finite biquandles. We use these polynomials to define
a family of link invariants which further generalize the quandle counting
invariant.

We study gauged Laplacian operators on line bundles on a quantum
2-dimensional sphere. Symmetry under the (co)-action of a quantum group allows
for their complete diagonalization. These operators describe `excitations
moving on the quantum sphere' in the field of a magnetic monopole. The energies
are not invariant under the exchange monopole/antimonopole, that is under
inverting the direction of the magnetic field. There are potential applications
to models of quantum Hall effect.

We study varieties with a finitely generated Cox ring. In a first part, we
generalize a combinatorial approach developed in earlier work for varieties
with a torsion free divisor class group to the case of torsion. Then we turn to
modifications, e.g., blow ups, and the question how the Cox ring changes under
such maps. We answer this question for a certain class of modifications induced
from modifications of ambient toric varieties. Moreover, we show that every
variety with finitely generated Cox ring can be explicitly constructed in a
finite series of toric ambient modifications from a combinatorially minimal
one.

We deal with Lagrangian systems that are invariant under the action of a
symmetry group. The mechanical connection is a principal connection that is
associated to Lagrangians which have a kinetic energy function that is defined
by a Riemannian metric. In this paper we extend this notion to arbitrary
Lagrangians. We then derive the reduced Lagrange-Poincare equations in a new
fashion and we show how solutions of the Euler-Lagrange equations can be
reconstructed with the help of the mechanical connection. Illustrative examples
confirm the theory.

We extend Routh's reduction procedure to an arbitrary Lagrangian system (that
is, one whose Lagrangian is not necessarily the difference of kinetic and
potential energies) with a symmetry group which is not necessarily Abelian. To
do so we analyse the restriction of the Euler-Lagrange field to a level set of
momentum in velocity phase space. We present a new method of analysis based on
the use of quasi-velocities. We discuss the reconstruction of solutions of the
full Euler-Lagrange equations from those of the reduced equations.

We apply the recent results of F. Hiai, M. Mosonyi and T. Ogawa
[arXiv:0707.2020, to appear in J. Math. Phys.] to the asymptotic hypothesis
testing problem of locally faithful shift-invariant quasi-free states on a CAR
algebra. We use a multivariate extension of Szego's theorem to show the
existence of the mean Chernoff and Hoeffding bounds and the mean relative
entropy, and show that these quantities arise as the optimal error exponents in
suitable settings.

We present a systematic and detailed review of the application of the method
of Hirota and the rational dressing method to abelian Toda systems associated
with the untwisted loop groups of complex general linear groups. Emphasizing
the rational dressing method, we compare the soliton solutions constructed
within these two approaches, and show that the solutions obtained by the
Hirota's method are a subset of those obtained by the rational dressing method.

This article surveys the relations between harmonic Higgs bundles and Saito
structures which lead to tt* geometry on Frobenius manifolds. We give the main
lines of the proof of the existence of a canonical tt* structure on the base
space of the universal unfolding of convenient and nondegenerate Laurent
polynomials.

In this paper we prove the asymptotic formula for the moments of Minkowski
question mark function, which describes the distribution of rationals in the
Farey tree. The main idea is to demonstrate that certain a variation of a
Laplace method is applicable in this problem, hence the task reduces to a
number of technical calculations.

Let (P,<) be a finite poset and let G be its comparability graph. If cl(G) is
the clutter of maximal cliques of G, we prove that cl(G) satisfies the max-flow
min-cut property and that its edge ideal is normally torsion free. We prove
that edge ideals of complete admissible uniform clutters are normally torsion
free. The normality of a monomial ideal is expressed in terms of blocking
polyhedra and the integer decomposition property. For edge ideals of clutters
this property completely determine their normality

The so-called "soldering" procedure performed by A.M. Polyakov in [1] for a
SL(2,R)-gauge theory is geometrically explained in terms of a Cartan connection
on second order frames of the projective space RP^1. The relationship between a
Cartan connection and the usual (Ehresmann) connection on a principal bundle
allows to gain an appropriate insight into the derivation of the genuine "
diffeomorphisms out of gauge transformations" given by Polyakov himself.

The study of quantum Lie algebras motivates a use of non-canonical ghosts and
anti-ghosts for non-linear algebras, like W-algebras. This leads, for the W_3
and W_3^(2) algebras, to the BRST operator having the conventional cubic form.

In this paper we prove a generalization of a theorem of Schneider, which
gives a criterion for a projective surface over the complex numbers to have an
ample cotangent bundle. After reviewing different notions of positivity, we
introduce a slightly weaker notion of ampleness, which we call quasi-ample, and
then are able to extend Schneider's result to higher dimensions.

The set of osculating circles of a given curve in $\SS^3$ forms a curve in
the set of oriented circles in $\SS^3$. We show that its
"${\frac12}$-dimensional measure" with respect to the pseudo-Riemannian
structure of the set of circles is proportional to the conformal arc-length of
the original curve, which is a conformally invariant local quantity discovered
in the first half of the last century.

We present a proof, which is conditional on the Birch and Swinnerton-Dyer
Conjecture for a specific abelian variety, that there do not exist rational
numbers x and c such that x has exact period N = 6 under the iteration x |->
x^2 + c. This extends earlier results by Morton for N = 4 and by Flynn, Poonen
and Schaefer for N = 5.

We prove that the critical temperature for the BCS gap equation is given by
$T_c = \mu (8/\pi e^{\gamma -2} + o(1)) e^{\pi/(2\sqrt \mu a)}$ in the low
density limit $\mu\to 0$. The formula holds for a suitable class of interaction
potentials with negative scattering length $a$ in the absence of bound states.

In this paper we introduce principal 2-bundles and show how they are
classified by non-abelian Cech cohomology. Moreover, we show that their gauge
2-groups can be described by 2-group-valued functors, much like in classical
bundle theory. Using this, we show that, under some mild requirements, these
gauge 2-groups possess a natural smooth structure. In the last section we
provide some explicit examples.

A comparison is made of various searching procedures, based upon different
entanglement measures or entanglement indicators, for highly entangled
multi-qubits states. In particular, our present results are compared with those
recently reported by Brown et al. [J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 38 (2005) 1119]. The
statistical distribution of entanglement values for the aforementioned
multi-qubit systems is also explored.

We consider Riemannian random waves, i.e. Gaussian random linear combination
of eigenfunctions of the Laplacian on a compact Riemannian manifold with
frequencies from a short interval (`asymptotically fixed frequency'). We first
show that the expected limit distribution of the real zero set of a is uniform
with respect to the volume form of a compact Riemannian manifold $(M, g)$. We
then show that the complex zero set of the analytic continuations of such
Riemannian random waves to a Grauert tube in the complexification of $M$ tends
to a limit current.

We establish new convergence results, in strong topologies, for solutions of
the parabolic-parabolic Keller--Segel system in the plane, to the corresponding
solutions of the parabolic-elliptic model, as a physical parameter goes to
zero. Our main tools are suitable space-time estimates, implying the global
existence of slowly decaying (in general, nonintegrable) solutions for these
models, under a natural smallness assumption.

We show that a product subsystem of a time ordered system (that is, a product
system of time ordered Fock modules), though type I, need not be isomorphic to
a time ordered product system. In that way, we answer an open problem in the
classification of CP-semigroups by product systems. We define spatial strongly
continuous CP-semigroups on a unital C*-algebra and characterize them as those
that have a Christensen-Evans generator.

Royden proved that any isometry of Teichmuller space in the Teichmuller
metric must be an element of the extended mapping class group M(S). He also
proved that the Teichmuller metric is not symmetric at any point. In this paper
we give extensions of Royden's theorems from the Teichmuller metric to an
arbitrary complete, finite covolume, M(S)-invariant Finsler (e.g. Riemannian)
metric on Teichmuller space. In particular this gives a new mechanism behind
Royden's original theorem.

Let p be a prime number and M a quadratic number field, M not equal to
Q(\sqrt{p}) if p is congruent to 1 modulo 4. We will prove that for any
positive integer d there exists a Galois extension F/Q with Galois group D_{2p}
and an elliptic curve E/Q such that F contains M and the p-Selmer group of E/F
has size at least p^d.

We compute the Stanley depth of irreducible monomial ideals and we show that
the Stanley depth of a monomial complete intersection ideal is the same as the
Stanley depth of it's radical. Also, we give some bounds for the Stanley depth
of a monomial complete intersection ideal.

This paper is based on the observation that dimension of weight spaces of
multi-variable Weyl modules depends polynomially on the highest weight
(Conjecture 1). We support this conjecture by various explicit answers for up
to three variable cases and discuss the underlying combinatorics.

Generalizing results by Bryant and Griffiths [Duke Math. J., 1995, V.78,
531-676], we completely describe local conservation laws of second-order
(1+1)-dimensional evolution equations up to contact equivalence. The possible
dimensions of spaces of conservation laws prove to be 0, 1, 2 and infinity. The
canonical forms of equations with respect to contact equivalence are found for
all nonzero dimensions of spaces of conservation laws.

We show that the stable commutator length vanishes for certain groups defined
as infinite unions of smaller groups. The argument uses a group-theoretic
analogue of the Mazur swindle, and goes back to the works of Anderson, Fisher,
and Mather on homeomorphism groups.

In paper 0704.4003, Bondarko recently defined the notion of weight structure,
and proved that the category $\DgM$ of geometrical motives over a perfect field
k, as defined and studied by Voevodsky, Suslin and Friedlander, is canonically
equipped with such a structure. Building on this result, and under a condition
on the weights avoided by the boundary motive, we describe a method to
construct intrinsically in $\DgM$ a motivic version of interior cohomology of
smooth, but possibly non-projective schemes. In a sequel to this work, this
method will be applied to Shimura varieties.

In this paper, we translate the Springer theory of Weyl group representations
into the language of symplectic topology. Given a semisimple complex group G,
we describe a Lagrangian brane in the cotangent bundle of the adjoint quotient
g/G that produces the perverse sheaves of Springer theory. The main technical
tool is an analysis of the Fourier transform for constructible sheaves from the
perspective of the Fukaya category. Our results can be viewed as a toy model of
the quantization of Hitchin fibers in the Geometric Langlands program.

We examine the reduction process of a system of second-order ordinary
differential equations which is invariant under a Lie group action. With the
aid of connection theory, we explain why the associated vector field decomposes
in three parts and we show how the integral curves of the original system can
be reconstructed from the reduced dynamics. An illustrative example confirms
the results.

A recently proposed test of quantumness [R. Alicki and N. Van Ryn, J. Phys.
A: Math. Theor. 41 062001 (2008)] is put into a broader mathematical and
physical perspective. The notion of quantumness witness is introduced, in
analogy to entanglement witness, and illustrated by examples of a single qubit
and many-body systems with additive observables. We compare also our proposal
with the quantumness test based on quantum correlations (entanglement) and Bell
inequalities. A class of quantumness witnesses associated to the phase space
representation is also discussed.

We show how to detect entangled, bound entangled, and separable bipartite
quantum states of arbitrary dimension and mixedness using geometric
entanglement witnesses. These witnesses are constructed using properties of the
Hilbert-Schmidt geometry and can be shifted along parameterized lines. The
involved conditions are simplified using Bloch decompositions of operators and
states. As an example we determine the three different types of states for a
family of two-qutrit states that is part of the "magic simplex", i.e. the set
of Bell-state mixtures of arbitrary dimension.

The present paper proves that all limit points of sequences of renormalized
solutions of the Boltzmann equation in the limit of small, asymptotically
equivalent Mach and Knudsen numbers are governed by Leray solutions of the
Navier-Stokes equations. This convergence result holds for hard cutoff
potentials in the sense of H. Grad, and therefore completes earlier results by
the same authors [Invent. Math. 155, 81-161(2004)] for Maxwell molecules.

We initiate the representation theory of restricted Lie superalgebras over an
algebraically closed field of characteristic p>2. A superalgebra generalization
of the celebrated Kac-Weisfeiler Conjecture is formulated, which exhibits a
mixture of p-power and 2-power divisibilities of dimensions of modules. We
establish the Conjecture for basic classical Lie superalgebras.

We give a simple proof of L^p boundedness of iterated commutators of Riesz
transforms and a product BMO function. We use a representation of the Riesz
transforms by means of simple dyadic operators - dyadic shifts - which in turn
reduces the estimate quickly to paraproduct estimates.

In this expository paper, we discuss how Fourier-Mukai-type transformations,
which we call SYZ mirror transformations, can be applied to provide a geometric
understanding of the mirror symmetry phenomena for semi-flat Calabi-Yau
manifolds and toric Fano manifolds. We also speculate the possible applications
of these transformations to other more general settings.

We study realistic models of relativistic radiating stars undergoing
gravitational collapse which have vanishing Weyl tensor components. Previous
investigations are generalised by retaining the inherent nonlinearity at the
boundary. We transform the boundary condition to an Abel equation of the first
kind. A variety of nonlinear solutions are generated all of which can be
written explicitly. Several classes of infinite solutions exist.

We model the behaviour of a relativistic spherically symmetric shearing fluid
undergoing gravitational collapse with heat flux. It is demonstrated that the
governing equation for the gravitational behaviour is a Riccati equation. We
show that the Riccati equation admits two classes of new solutions in closed
form. We regain particular models, obtained in previous investigations, as
special cases. A significant feature of our solutions is the general spatial
dependence in the metric functions which allows for a wider study of the
physical features of the model, such as the behaviour of the causal temperature
in inhomogeneous spacetimes.

We extend to manifolds of arbitrary dimension the Castelnuovo-de Franchis
inequality for surfaces. The proof is based on the theory of Generic Vanishing
and higher regularity, and on the Evans-Griffith Syzygy Theorem in commutative
algebra. Along the way we give a positive answer, in the setting of K\"ahler
manifolds, to a question of Green-Lazarsfeld on the vanishing of higher direct
images of Poincar\'e bundles. We indicate generalizations to arbitrary
Fourier-Mukai transforms.

Clozel and Labesse proved the base change fundamental lemma for spherical
Hecke algebras attached to an unramified group over a p-adic field. This paper
proves an analogous fundamental lemma for centers of parahoric Hecke algebras
attached to the same class of groups. This provides an ingredient needed for
the author's program to study Shimura varieties with parahoric level structure
at p.

We exhibit cocycles representing certain classes in the rational cohomology
of of the general linear group with coefficients in the divided powers of a
Frobenius twist of the adjoint representation. These classes' existence was
anticipated by van der Kallen, and they intervene in the proof that reductive
linear algebraic groups have finitely generated cohomology algebras.

In this paper, we show a general way to interpret the infrastructure of a
global field of arbitrary unit rank. This interpretation generalizes the prior
concepts of the giant step operation and f-representations, and makes it
possible to relate the infrastructure to the (Arakelov) divisor class group of
the global field. In the case of global function fields, we present results
that establish that effective implementation of the presented methods is indeed
possible, and we show how Shanks' baby-step giant-step method can be
generalized to this situation.

We construct a covariant functor from the topological torus bundles to the
so-called Cuntz-Krieger algebras; the functor maps homeomorphic bundles into
the stably isomorphic Cuntz-Krieger algebras. It is shown, that the K-theory of
the Cuntz-Krieger algebra encodes torsion of the first homology group of the
bundle. We illustrate the result by examples.

We give a new construction of monopole Floer homology for spin-c rational
homology 3-spheres. As applications we define two invariants of certain smooth
compact 4-manifolds with b_1=1 and b^+=0.

We find new solutions, including soliton-like ones, for a special case of
non-Abelian loop Toda equations associated with complex general linear groups.
We use the method of rational dressing based on an appropriate block-matrix
representation suggested by the Z-gradation under consideration. We present
solutions in a form of a direct matrix generalization of the Hirota's soliton
solution already well-known for the case of Abelian loop Toda systems.

A powerful method for solving non-linear first-order ordinary differential
equations, which is based on geometrical understanding of the corresponding
dynamics of the so called Lie systems, is developed. This method allows us not
only to solve some of these equations, but also gives a geometrical
explanations for some, already known, ad hoc methods of dealing with such
problems.

We explain the isomorphism between the $G$-Hilbert scheme and the F-blowup
from the noncommutative viewpoint after Van den Bergh. In doing this, we
immediately and naturally arrive at the notion of $D$-modules. We also find, as
a byproduct, a canonical way to construct a noncommutative resolution at least
for a few classes of singularities in positive characteristic.

It is shown how Andrews' multidimensional extension of Watson's
transformation between a very-well-poised $_8\phi_7$-series and a balanced
$_4\phi_3$-series can be used to give a straightforward proof of a conjecture
of Zudilin and the second author on the arithmetic behaviour of the
coefficients of certain linear forms of 1 and Catalan's constant. This proof is
considerably simpler and more stream-lined than the first proof, due to the
second author.

We prove the annealed Central Limit Theorem for random walks in bistochastic
random environments on $Z^d$ with zero local drift. The proof is based on a
"dynamicist's interpretation" of the system, and requires a much weaker
condition than the customary uniform ellipticity. Moreover, recurrence is
derived for $d \le 2$.

The Dirac equation in (1+1) dimensions with a non-local PT-symmetric
potential of separable type is studied by means of the Green function method:
properties of bound and scattering states are derived in full detail and
numerical results are shown for a potential kernel of Yamaguchi type, inspired
by the treatment of low-energy nucleon-nucleon interaction.

In this paper, we determine all the squares in the sequence
$\{\prod_{k=2}^n(k^2-1)\}_{n=2}^\infty $. From this, one deduces that there are
infinitely many squares in this sequence. We also give a formula for the
$p$-adic valuation of the terms in this sequence.

Let k be an infinite perfect field of positive characteristic p and assume
that strong resolution of singularities holds over k. We prove that, if X is a
d-dimensional noetherian scheme whose underlying reduced scheme is essentially
of finite type over the field k, then the negative K-group K_q(X) vanishes for
every q < -d. This partially affirms a conjecture of Weibel.

The auxiliary field method has been recently proposed as an efficient
technique to compute analytical approximate solutions of eigenequations in
quantum mechanics. We show that the auxiliary field method is completely
equivalent to the envelope theory, which is another well-known procedure to
analytically solve eigenequations, although relying on different principles
\textit{a priori}. This equivalence leads to a deeper understanding of both
frameworks.

Using complexified quaternions, a formalism without Lorentz frames, and
therefore also without vierbeins, for dealing with tensor and spinor fields in
curved spacetime is presented. A local U(1) gauge symmetry, which, it is
speculated, might be related to electromagnetism, emerges naturally.

We review Kajiwara and Watatani's construction of a C*-algebra from an
iterated function system (IFS). If the IFS satisfies the finite branch
condition or the open set condition, we build an injective homomorphism from
Kajiwara-Watatani algebras to the Cuntz algebra, which can be thought as the
algebra of the lifted system, and we give the description of its image.
Finally, if the IFS admits a left inverse we show that the Kajiwara-Watatani
algebra is isomorphic to an Exel's crossed product.

We extend the Siu--Beauville theorem to a certain class of compact
Kaehler--Weyl manifolds, proving that they fiber holomorphically over
hyperbolic Riemannian surfaces whenever they satisfy the necessary topological
hypotheses. As applications we obtain restrictions on the fundamental groups of
such Kaehler--Weyl manifolds, and show that in certain cases they are in fact
Kaehler.

We survey interactions between the topology and the combinatorics of complex
hyperplane arrangements. Without claiming to be exhaustive, we examine in this
setting combinatorial aspects of fundamental groups, associated graded Lie
algebras, higher homotopy groups, cohomology rings, twisted homology with rank
1 complex coefficients, and Milnor fibers.

When can a majority of voters find common ground, that is, a position they
all agree upon? How does the shape of the political spectrum influence the
outcome? When mathematical objects have a social interpretation, the associated
theorems have social applications. In this article we give examples of
situations where sets model preferences and develop extensions of classical
theorems about convex sets, such as Helly's theorem, that can be used in the
analysis of voting in "agreeable" societies.

We construct a generalization of Courant algebroids which are classified by
the third cohomology group $H^3(A,V)$, where $A$ is a Lie Algebroid, and $V$ is
an $A$-module. We see that both Courant algebroids and $\mathcal{E}^1(M)$
structures are examples of them. Finally we introduce generalized CR structures
on a manifold, which are a generalization of generalized complex structures,
and show that every CR structure and contact structure is an example of a
generalized CR structure.

This paper investigates the evolution of collapsing FRW models with a scalar
field having the potential which arises in the conformal frame of high order
gravity theories, coupled to matter described by a perfect fluid with energy
density $\rho$ and pressure $p$, obeying a barotropic equation of state. The
solutions are shown to evolve generically to a singular state in a finite time
and they are used as sources for radiating objects undergoing complete
gravitational collapse. Although these singularities may be naked in some
special case, it is shown that generically a black hole forms.

Within the framework of algebraic quantum field theory, we propose a new
method of constructing local generators of (global) gauge symmetries in field
theoretic models, starting from the existence of unitary operators implementing
locally the flip automorphism on the doubled theory. We show, in the simple
example of the internal symmetries of a multiplet of free scalar fields, that
through the pointlike limit of such local generators the conserved Wightman
currents associated with the symmetries are recovered.

We introduce a method which allows one to recover the equations of motion of
a class of nonholonomic systems by finding instead an unconstrained Hamiltonian
system on the full phase space, and to restrict the resulting canonical
equations to an appropriate submanifold of phase space. We focus first on the
Lagrangian picture of the method and deduce the corresponding Hamiltonian from
the Legendre transformation. We illustrate the method with several examples and
we discuss its relationship to the Pontryagin maximum principle.

We study aspects of the refining and shifting properties of the 3d MacMahon
function $\mathcal{C}_{3}(q) $ used in topological string theory and BKP
hierarchy. We derive the explicit expressions of the shifted topological vertex
$\mathcal{S}_{\lambda \mu \nu}(q) $ and its refined version
$\mathcal{T}_{\lambda \mu \nu}(q,t) $. These vertices complete results in
literature.

The aim of this paper is to study integer rounding properties of various
systems of linear inequalities to gain insight about the algebraic properties
of Rees algebras of monomial ideals and monomial subrings. We study the
normality and Gorenstein property--as well as the canonical module and the
a-invariant--of Rees algebras and subrings arising from systems with the
integer rounding property. We relate the algebraic properties of Rees algebras
and monomial subrings with integer rounding properties and present a duality
theorem.

We establish an operator extension of the following generalization of Bohr's
inequality, due to M.P. Vasi\'c and D.J. Ke\v{c}ki\'{c}: $$|\sum_{i=1}^n z_i|^r
\leq (\sum_{i=1}^n \alpha_i^{1/(1-r)})^{r-1}\sum_{i=1}^n \alpha_i|z_i|^r \quad
(r>1, z_i \in{\mathbb C}, \alpha_i>0, 1 \leq i \leq n) .$$ We also present some
norm inequalities related to our noncommutative generalization of Bohr's
inequality.

We prove that for regular contact forms there exists a bijective
correspondence between the $C^0$ limits of sequences of smooth strictly contact
isotopies and the limits with respect to the contact distance of their
corresponding Hamiltonians.

We define a new monoidal category on collections (shuffle composition).
Monoids in this category (shuffle operads) turn out to bring a new insight in
the theory of symmetric operads. For this category, we develop the machinery of
Gr\"obner bases for operads, and present operadic versions of Bergman's Diamond
Lemma and Buchberger's algorithm. This machinery can be applied to study
symmetric operads. In particular, we obtain an effective algorithmic version of
Hoffbeck's PBW criterion of Koszulness for (symmetric) quadratic operads.

We present component-resolved and total pair distribution functions for a
2DEG with two symmetric valleys. Our results are based on quantum Monte Carlo
simulations performed at several densities and spin polarizations.

We introduce two coloured operads in sets -- the lattice path operad and a
cyclic extension of it -- closely related to iterated loop spaces and to
universal operations on cochains. As main application we present a formal
construction of an $E_2$-action (resp. framed $E_2$-action) on the Hochschild
cochain complex of an associative (resp. symmetric Frobenius) algebra.

We introduce a structure of an infinite-dimensional Frobenius manifold on a
subspace in the space of pairs of functions analytic inside/outside the unit
circle with simple poles at 0/infinity respectively. The dispersionless 2D Toda
equations are embedded into a bigger integrable hierarchy associated with this
Frobenius manifold.

We study the gravitational behaviour of a spherically symmetric radiating
star when the fluid particles are in geodesic motion. We transform the
governing equation into a simpler form which allows for a general analytic
treatment. We find that Bernoulli, Riccati and confluent hypergeometric
equations are possible. These admit solutions in terms of elementary functions
and special functions. Particular models contain the Minkowski spacetime and
the Friedmann dust spacetime as limiting cases. Our infinite family of
solutions contains specific models found previously. For a particular metric we
briefly investigate the physical features, derive the temperature profiles and
plot the behaviour of the casual and acasual temperatures.

We consider diffeomorphisms in the $C^\infty$-closure of the conjugancy class
of translations of the 2-torus. By a theorem of Fathi and Herman, a generic
diffeomorphism in that space is minimal and uniquely ergodic. We define a new
mixing-like property, which takes into account the "directions" of mixing, and
we prove that generic elements of the space in question satisfy this property.
As a consequence, we show that there is a residual set of strictly ergodic
diffeomorphisms without invariant foliations of any kind. We also obtain an
analytic version of these results.

This article is the continued version of the analytical solutions for the
pressureless Navier-Stokes equations with density-dependent viscosity in "M.W.
Yuen, Analyitcal Solutions to the Navier-Stokes Equations, J. Math. Phys., 49
(2008) No. 11, 113102, 10pp". We are able to extend the similar solutions
structure to the case with pressure under some restriction for $\gamma$ and
$\theta$.

A linear group G<GL(n) acts on d-tuples of n x n matrices by simultaneous
conjugation. In [Adv. Math. 19 (1976), 306-381] Procesi established generators
and relations between them for G-invariants, where G is GL(n), O(n), and Sp(n)
and the characteristic of base field is zero. We continue generalization of the
mentioned results to the case of positive characteristic originated by Donkin
in [Invent. Math. 110 (1992), 389-401]. We investigate relations between
generators for O(n)-invariants.

Project a collection of points on the high-dimensional sphere onto a random
direction. If most of the points are sufficiently far from one another in an
appropriate sense, the projection is locally close in distribution to the
Poisson point process.

In this paper, we deal with the problem of uniqueness of minimal system of
binomial generators of a semigroup ideal. Concretely, we give different
necessary and/or sufficient conditions for uniqueness of such minimal system of
generators. These conditions come from the study and combinatorial description
of the so-called indispensable binomials in the semigroup ideal.

We investigate the metric behavior of the Kahler-Ricci flow on the Hirzebruch
surfaces, assuming the initial metric is invariant under a maximal compact
subgroup of the automorphism group. We show that, in the sense of
Gromov-Hausdorff, the flow either shrinks to a point, collapses to
$\mathbb{P}^1$ or contracts an exceptional divisor, confirming a conjecture of
Feldman-Ilmanen-Knopf. We also show that similar behavior holds on
higher-dimensional analogues of the Hirzebruch surfaces.

The inhomogeneous metric theory for the set of simultaneously
$\psi$-approximable points lying on a planar curve is developed. Our results
naturally incorporate the homogeneous Khintchine-Jarnik type theorems recently
established in [Ann. of Math. (2), 166 (2007), pp. 367-426] and [Invent. Math.,
166 (2006), pp. 103-124]. The key lies in obtaining essentially the best
possible results regarding the distribution of `shifted' rational points near
planar curves.

Generalizing and unifying prior results, we solve the subconvexity problem
for the $L$-functions of $\GL_{1}$ and $\GL_{2}$ automorphic representations
over a fixed number field, uniformly in all aspects. A novel feature of the
present method is the softness of our arguments; this is largely due to a
consistent use of canonically normalized period relations, such as those
supplied by the work of Waldspurger and Ichino--Ikeda.

The success of Berry phases in quantum mechanics stimulated the study of
similar phenomena in other areas of physics, including the theory of living
cell locomotion and motion of patterns in nonlinear media. More recently,
geometric phases have been applied to systems operating in a strongly
stochastic environment, such as molecular motors. We discuss such geometric
effects in purely classical dissipative stochastic systems and their role in
the theory of the stochastic pump effect (SPE).

Given any positive integer n, we prove the existence of infinitely many right
triangles with area n and side lengths in certain number fields. This
generalizes the famous congruent number problem. The proof allows the explicit
construction of these triangles; for this purpose we find for any positive
integer n an explicit cubic number field Q(\lambda) (depending on n) and an
explicit point P_\lambda of infinite order in the Mordell-Weil group of the
elliptic curve Y^2=X^3-n^2*X over Q(\lambda).

A new class of exact solutions of the Einstein-Maxwell system is found in
closed form. This is achieved by choosing a generalised form for one of the
gravitational potentials and a particular form for the electric field
intensity. For specific values of the parameters it is possible to write the
new series solutions in terms of elementary functions. We regain well known
physically reasonable models. A physical analysis indicates that the model may
be used to describe a charged sphere. The influence of the electromagnetic
field on the gravitational interaction is highlighted.

Our previous work on quantum mechanics in Hilbert spaces of finite dimensions
N is applied to elucidate the deep meaning of Feynman's path integral pointed
out by G. Svetlichny. He speculated that the secret of the Feynman path
integral may lie in the property of mutual unbiasedness of temporally proximal
bases. We confirm the corresponding property of the short-time propagator by
using a specially devised N x N -approximation of quantum mechanics in L^2(R)
applied to our finite-dimensional analogue of a free quantum particle.

In this note I study the Sasakian geometry associated to the standard CR
structure on the Heisenberg group, and prove that the Sasaki cone coincides
with the set of extremal Sasakian structures. Moreover, the scalar curvature of
these extremal metrics is constant if and only if the metric has
$\Phi$-sectional curvature $-3.$ I also briefly discuss some relations with the
well-know sub-Riemannian geometry of the Heisenberg group as well as the
standard Sasakian structure induced on compact quotients.

A weighted Hilbert space approach to the study of zero-energy states of
supersymmetric matrix models is introduced. Applied to a related but
technically simpler model, it is shown that the spectrum of the corresponding
weighted Hamiltonian simplifies to become purely discrete for sufficient
weights. This follows from a bound for the number of negative eigenvalues of an
associated matrix-valued Schr\"odinger operator.

We prove that the action of the semigroup generated by a $C^r$ generic pair
of area-preserving diffeomorphisms of a compact orientable surface is
transitive.

Let $X$ be a connected Riemannian manifold such that the resolvent of the
free Laplacian $(\Delta-z)^{-1}, z\in\C\setminus\R^{+},$ has a meromorphic
continuation through $\R^{+}$. The poles of this continuation are called
resonances. When $X$ has some symmetries, we construct complex-valued
potentials, $V$, such that the resolvent of $\Delta+V$, which has also a
meromorphic continuation, has the same resonances with multiplicities as the
free Laplacian.

We prove two new reverse Cauchy--Schwarz inequalities of additive and
multiplicative types in a space equipped with a positive sesquilinear form with
values in a C*-algebra. We apply our results to get some norm and integral
inequalities. As a consequence, we improve a celebrated reverse Cauchy--Schwarz
inequality due to G Polya and G. Szego.

We prove that a compact Riemann surface can be realized as a
pseudo-holomorphic curve of $(\mathbb{R}^4,J)$, for some almost complex
structure $J$ if and only if it is an elliptic curve. Furthermore we show that
any (almost) complex $2n$-torus can be holomorphically embedded in
$(\mathbb{R}^{4n},J)$ for a suitable almost complex structure $J$. This allows
us to embed any compact Riemann surface in some almost complex Euclidean space
and to show many explicit examples of almost complex structure in
$\mathbb{R}^{2n}$ which can not be tamed by any symplectic form.

We present Tanaka's prolongation procedure for filtered structures on
manifolds discovered in [Tanaka N., J. Math. Kyoto. Univ. 10 (1970), 1-82] in a
spirit of Singer-Sternberg's description of the prolongation of usual
G-structures [Singer I.M., Sternberg S., J. Analyse Math. 15 (1965), 1-114;
Sternberg S., Prentice-Hall, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 1964]. This approach
gives a transparent point of view on the Tanaka constructions avoiding many
technicalities of the original Tanaka paper.

We establish an explicit algebra isomorphism between the quantum reflection
algebra for the $U_q(\hat{sl_2})$ R-matrix and a new type of current algebra.
These two algebras are shown to be two realizations of a special case of
tridiagonal algebras (q-Onsager).

Let Z be a complex space and let S be a compact set in C^n x Z which is
fibered over R^n (the real subspace of C^n). We give a necessary and sufficient
condition for S to be a Stein compactum.

We present a bijection between cyclic permutations of {1,2,...,n+1} and
permutations of {1,2,...,n} that preserves the descent set of the first n
entries and the set of weak excedances. This non-trivial bijection involves a
Foata-like transformation on the cyclic notation of the permutation, followed
by certain conjugations. We also give an alternate derivation of the consequent
result about the equidistribution of descent sets using work of Gessel and
Reutenauer. Finally, we prove a conjecture of the author in [SIAM J. Discrete
Math. 23 (2009), 765-786] and a conjecture of Eriksen, Freij and W\"astlund.

Let D\subseteq \mathbb{R} be closed and discrete and f:D^n \to \mathbb{R} be
such that f(D^n) is somewhere dense. We show that (\mathbb{R},+,\cdot,f)
defines the set of integers. As an application, we get that for every a,b \in
\mathbb{R} with \log_{a}(b)\notin \mathbb{Q}, the real field expanded by the
two cyclic multiplicative subgroups generated by a and b defines the set of
integers.

We prove results generalizing the classical Riemann Singularity Theorem to
the case of integral, singular curves. The main result is a computation of the
multiplicity of the theta divisor of an integral, nodal curve at an arbitrary
point. We also conjecture a general formula for the multiplicity of points on
the theta divisor of a singular integral curve and present some evidence for
this conjecture. Our results give a partial answer to a question posed by Lucia
Caporaso in a recent paper.

Symmetry groups or groupoids of C*-algebras associated to non-Hausdorff
spaces are often non-Hausdorff as well. We describe such symmetries using
crossed modules of groupoids. We define actions of crossed modules on
C*-algebras and crossed products for such actions, and justify these
definitions with some basic general results and examples.

If F is a master function corresponding to a hyperplane arrangement A and a
collection of weights y, we investigate the relationship between the critical
set of F, the variety defined by the vanishing of the one-form w = d log F, and
the resonance of y. For arrangements satisfying certain conditions, we show
that if y is resonant in dimension p, then the critical set of F has
codimension at most p. These include all free arrangements and all rank 3
arrangements.

Starting from the three-dimensional Gross-Pitaevskii equation we derive a 1D
generalized nonpolynomial Schrodinger equation, which describes the dynamics of
Bose-Einstein condensates under the action of a generic potential in the
longitudinal axial direction and of an anisotropic harmonic potential in the
transverse radial direction. This equation reduces to the familiar 1D
nonpolynomial Schrodinger equation [Phys. Rev. A 65, 043614 (2002)] in the case
of isotropic transverse harmonic confinement. In addition, we show that if the
longitudinal potential models a periodic optical lattice the 3D GPE can be
mapped into a 1D generalized discrete nonpolynomial Schrodinger equation.

In this paper we present some conditions for the (strong) stabilizability of
an n-D Quantum MIMO system P(X). It contains two parts. The first part is to
introduce the n-D Quantum MIMO systems where the coefficients vary in the
algebra of Q-meromorphic functions. Then we introduce some conditions for the
stabilizability of these systems. The second part is to show that this Quantum
system has the n-D system as its quantum limit and the results for the
SISO,SIMO,MISO,MIMO are obtained again as special cases.

We revisit a bound on symbolic powers found by Ein-Lazarsfeld-Smith and
subsequently improved by Takagi-Yoshida. We show that the original argument of
Ein-Lazarsfeld-Smith actually gives the same improvement. On the other hand, we
show by examples that any further improvement based on the same technique
appears unlikely. This is primarily an exposition; only some examples and
remarks might be new.

We survey certain accessible aspects of Grothendieck's theory of motives in
arithmetic algebraic geometry for mathematical physicists, focussing on areas
that have recently found applications in quantum field theory. An appendix (by
Matilde Marcolli) sketches further connections between motivic theory and
theoretical physics.

We establish some properties of quantum quasi-shuffle algebras. They include
the necessary and sufficient condition for the construction of the quantum
quasi-shuffle product, the universal property, and the commutativity condition.
As an application, we use the quantum quasi-shuffle product to construct a
linear basis of $T(V)$, for a special kind of Yang-Baxter algebras
$(V,m,\sigma)$.

We investigate subgroups of SL (n,Z) which preserve an open nondegenerate
convex cone in real n-space and admit in that cone as fundamental domain a
polyhedral cone of which some faces are allowed to lie on the boundary.
Examples are arithmetic groups acting on selfdual cones, Weyl groups of certain
Kac-Moody algebras and do occur in algebraic geometry as the automorphism
groups of projective manifolds acting on their ample cones.

We develop a method for calculating the norm and the spectrum of the modulus
of a Foguel operator. In many cases, the norm can be computed exactly. In
others, sharp upper bounds are obtained. In particular, we observe several
connections between Foguel operators and the Golden Ratio.

The similar sublattices of a planar lattice can be classified via its
multiplier ring. The latter is the ring of rational integers in the generic
case, and an order in an imaginary quadratic field otherwise. Several classes
of examples are discussed, with special emphasis on concrete results. In
particular, we derive Dirichlet series generating functions for the number of
distinct similar sublattices of a given index, and relate them to various zeta
functions of orders in imaginary quadratic fields.

Chain complexes of finitely generated free modules over orbit categories
provide natural algebraic models for finite G-CW complexes with prescribed
isotropy. We prove a p-hypoelementary Dress induction theorem for K-theory over
the orbit category of a finite group, and use it to re-interpret some results
of Oliver and Kropholler-Wall on acyclic complexes.

For the link $M$ of a normal complex surface singularity $(X,0)$ we ask when
a knot $K\subset M$ exists for which the answer to whether $K$ is the link of
the zero set of some analytic germ $(X,0)\to (\mathbb C,0)$ affects the
analytic structure on $(X,0)$. We show that if $M$ is an integral homology
sphere then such a knot exists if and only if $M$ is not one of the Brieskorn
homology spheres $M(2,3,5)$, $M(2,3,7)$, $M(2,3,11)$.

We prove that every algebraic curve X defined over the algebraic closure of
the rationals is birational over the complex numbers to a Teichmuller curve.

In this paper, we classify n-dimensional (n>2) complete noncompact locally
conformally flat gradient steady solitons. In particular, we prove that a
complete noncompact non-flat conformally flat gradient steady Ricci soliton is,
up to scaling, the Bryant soliton.

We solve the Cauchy problem for the modified Korteweg--de Vries equation with
steplike quasi-periodic, finite-gap initial conditions under the assumption
that the perturbations have a given number of derivatives and moments finite.

Recently, Yakubovich [Opuscula Math. 26 (2006) 161--172] and Passian et al.
[J. Math. Anal. Appl. doi:10.1016/j.jmaa.2009.06.067] have presented
alternative proofs of an orthogonality relation obeyed by the Macdonald
functions of imaginary order. In this note, we show that the validity of that
relation may be also proved in a simpler way by applying a technique
occasionally used in mathematical physics to normalize scattering wave
functions to the Dirac delta distribution.

We consider cubic polynomials f(z)=z^3+az+b defined over the function field
C(L), with a marked point of period N and multiplier L. In the case N=1, there
are infinitely many such objects, and in the case N>2, only finitely many. The
case N=2 has particularly rich structure, and we are able to describe all such
cubic polynomials defined over the field obtained by adjoining to C the mth
roots of L, for all L.

We show that every unramified morphism X->Y has a canonical and universal
factorization X->E->Y where the first morphism is a closed embedding and the
second is etale (but not separated).

Ramanujan famously found congruences for the partition function like p(5n+4)
= 0 modulo 5. We provide a method to find all simple congruences of this type
in the coefficients of the inverse of a modular form on Gamma_{1}(4) which is
non-vanishing on the upper half plane. This is applied to answer open questions
about the (non)-existence of congruences in the generating functions for
overpartitions, crank differences, and 2-colored F-partitions.

Using the scalar curvature of the product manifold S^{2}X R and the complete
group classification of nonlinear Poisson equation on (pseudo) Riemannian
manifolds, we extend the previous results on symmetry analysis of homogeneous
wave equation obtained by H. Azad and M. T. Mustafa [H. Azad and M. T. Mustafa,
Symmetry analysis of wave equation on sphere, J. Math. Anal. Appl., 333 (2007)
1180--1888] to nonlinear Klein-Gordon equations on the two-dimensional sphere.

In this paper we provide a wildness criterion for any finite dimensional Hopf
algebra with finitely generated cohomology. This generalizes a result of
Farnsteiner to not necessarily cocommutative Hopf algebras over ground fields
of arbitrary characteristic. Our proof uses the theory of support varieties for
modules, one of the crucial ingredients being a tensor product property for
some special modules. As an application we prove a conjecture of Cibils stating
that small quantum groups of rank at least two are wild.

We show that central extensions of the mapping class group $M_g$ of the
closed orientable surface of genus $g$ by $\Z$ are residually finite. Further
we give rough estimates of the largest $N=N_g$ such that homomorphisms from
$M_g$ to SU(N) have finite image. In particular, homomorphisms of $M_g$ into
$SL([\sqrt{g+1}],\C)$ have finite image. Both results come from properties of
quantum representations of mapping class groups.

It is well-known that the central extensions of the loop group of a compact,
simple and 1-connected Lie group are parametrised by their level $k \in Z$.
This article concerns the question how much can be said for arbitrary $k \in R$
and we show that for each $k$ there exists a Lie groupoid which has the level
$k$ central extension as its quotient if $k \in Z$. By considering categorified
principal bundles we show, moreover, that the corresponding Lie groupoid has
the expected bundle structure.

For any sequence of matrix algebras that converge to a coadjoint orbit we
give explicit formulas that show that the distances between the matrix algebras
(viewed as quantum metric spaces) converges to 0. In the process we develop a
general point of view that is likely to be useful in other related settings.

We explicitly find an equation and a projective embedding of the Kummer
surface associated to the Jacobian of a curve of genus 2 given by an equation
of the form y^2 + h(x)y = f(x) over an arbitrary ground field as well as
several maps that can be used to perform arithmetic on it. This extends earlier
work by Flynn and has applications, for instance, in computations of canonical
heights for genus 2 Jacobians and in cryptography.

Recently, we have derived a generalization of the known canonical fluctuation
relation $k_{B}C=\beta^{2}< \delta U^{2} >$ between heat capacity $C$ and
energy fluctuations, which can account for the existence of macrostates with
negative heat capacities $C<0$. In this work, we presented a panoramic overview
of direct implications and connections of this fluctuation theorem with other
developments of statistical mechanics, such as the extension of canonical Monte
Carlo methods, the geometric formulations of fluctuation theory and the
relevance of a geometric extension of the Gibbs canonical ensemble that has
been recently proposed in the literature.

It is proved that each lattice with complex multiplication by $f\sqrt{-D}$
corresponds to a pseudo-lattice with real multiplication by $f'\sqrt{D}$, where
$f'$ is an integer defined by $f$.

We establish a Penrose-Like Inequality for general (not necessarily time
symmetric) initial data sets of the Einstein equations which satisfy the
dominant energy condition. More precisely, it is shown that the ADM energy is
bounded below by an expression which is proportional to the square root of the
area of the outermost future (or past) apparent horizon.

In this paper, we prove some one level density results for low-lying zeros of
families of $L$-functions. More specifically, the families under consideration
are that of $L$-functions of holomorphic Hecke eigenforms of level 1 and weight
$k$ twisted with quadratic Dirichlet characters and that of cubic and quartic
Dirichlet $L$-functions.

We discuss the nature of the two-stage percolation transition on the enhanced
binary tree in order to explain the disagreement in the estimation of the
second transition probability between the one in our recent paper (J. Phys.
A:Math. Theor. 42 (2009) 145001) and the one in the comment to it from Baek,
Minnhagen and Kim. We point out some reasons that the finite size scaling
analysis used by them is not proper for the enhanced tree due to its
nonamenable nature, which is verified by some numerical results.

Bertini classified the birational involutions of the complex projective
plane, but his geometric approach does not allow to explicit these maps easily.
In this article, we present an effective approach to this problem by
associating to each quadratic foliation a birational involution which is, in
the generic case, a Geiser involution; this subject has already been covered by
Geiser, Milinowski, Williams and alt. We end by making experiences, obtaining
trivolutions from some foliations of degree 3.

This paper considers the problem of $L^p$-estimates for a certain multilinear
functional involving integration against a kernel with the structure of a
determinant. Examples of such objects are ubiquitous in the study of Fourier
restriction and geometric averaging operators. It is shown that, under very
general circumstances, the boundedness of such functionals is equivalent to a
geometric inequality for measures which has recently appeared in work by D.
Oberlin (Math Proc. Cambridge. Philos. Soc., 129, 2000) and Bak, Oberlin, and
Seeger (J. Aust. Math. Soc., 85, 2008).

We evaluate four families of determinants of matrices, where the entries are
sums or differences of generating functions for paths consisting of up-steps,
down-steps and level steps. By specialisation, these determinant evaluations
have numerous corollaries. In particular, they cover numerous determinant
evaluations of combinatorial numbers - most notably of Catalan, ballot, and of
Motzkin numbers - that appeared previously in the literature.

Various issues with regard to chaos and recurrence in infinite dimensions are
discussed. The doctrine we are trying to derive is that Sobolev spaces over
bounded spatial domains do host chaos and recurrence, while Sobolev spaces over
unbounded spatial domains are lack of chaos and recurrence. Local Sobolev
spaces over unbounded spatial domains can host chaos and are natural phase
spaces e.g. for fluid problems, but are very challenging to study.

We consider construction of Lagrangians which are candidates for p-adic
sector of an adelic open scalar string. Such Lagrangians have their origin in
Lagrangian for a single p-adic string and contain the Riemann zeta function
with the d'Alembertian in its argument. In particular, we present a new
Lagrangian obtained by an additive approach which takes into account all p-adic
Lagrangians. The very attractive feature of this new Lagrangian is that it is
an analytic function of the d'Alembertian. Investigation of the field theory
with Riemann zeta function is interesting in itself as well.

Quantum symmetric algebras (or noncommutative polynomial rings) arise in many
places in mathematics. In this article we find the multiplicative structure of
their Hochschild cohomology when the coefficients are in an arbitrary bimodule
algebra. When this bimodule algebra is a finite group extension (under a
diagonal action) of a quantum symmetric algebra, we give explicitly the graded
vector space structure. This yields a complete description of the Hochschild
cohomology ring of the corresponding skew group algebra.

In a recent paper, Adamchik [V.S. Adamchik, On the Hurwitz function for
rational arguments, Appl. Math. Comp. 187 (2007) 3--12] expressed in a closed
form symbolic derivatives of four functions belonging to the class of functions
whose derivatives are polynomials in terms of the same functions. In this
sequel, simple closed-form higher derivative formulae which involve the
Carlitz-Scoville higher order tangent and secant numbers are derived for eight
trigonometric and hyperbolic functions.

Recently, an interesting dilogarithmic integral arising in quantum field
theory has been closed-form evaluated in terms of the Clausen function
$\text{Cl}_2(\theta)$ by Coffey [J. Math. Phys.} 49 (2008), 093508]. It
represents the volume of an ideal tetrahedron in hyperbolic space and is
involved in two intriguing equivalent conjectures of Borwein and Broadhurst. It
is shown here, by simple and direct arguments, that this integral can be
expressed by the triplet of the Clausen function values which are involved in
one of the two above-mentioned conjectures.

It is known that if a classical link group is a free abelian group, then its
rank is at most two. It is also known that a $k$-component 2-link group ($k>1$)
is not free abelian. In this paper, we give examples of $T^2$-links each of
whose link groups is a free abelian group of rank three or four. Concerning the
$T^2$-links of rank three, we determine the triple point numbers and we see
that their link types are infinitely many.

From the point of view of the Young superdiagrm method, an analytic Bethe
ansatz is carried out for Lie superalgebra sl(r+1|s+1). For the transfer matrix
eigenvalue formulae in dressed vacuum form, we present some expressions, which
are quantum analogue of Jacobi-Trudi and Giambelli formulae for Lie
superalgebra sl(r+1|s+1). We also propose transfer matrix functional relations,
which are Hirota bilinear difference equation with some constraints.

Exact Kerr-Schild (KS) solutions for electromagnetic excitations of
black-holes, have the form of singular beams supported on twistor lines of the
KS geometry. These beams have a very strong back-reaction on the metric and
horizon and create a fluctuating KS geometry occupying an intermediate position
between the classical and quantum gravities. We consider the Kerr theorem,
which determines the twistor structure of the KS geometry and the corresponding
holographic prequantum space-time adapted to subsequent quantum treatment.

We study topological properties of the symmetric inverse topological
semigroup of finite transformations $\mathscr{I}_\lambda^n$ of the rank
$\leqslant n$. We show that the topological inverse semigroup
$\mathscr{I}_\lambda^n$ is algebraically $h$-closed in the class of topological
inverse semigroups. Also we prove that a topological semigroup $S$ with
countably compact square $S\times S$ does not contain the semigroup
$\mathscr{I}_\lambda^n$ for infinite cardinal $\lambda$ and show that the Bohr
compactification of an infinite topological symmetric inverse semigroup of
finite transformations $\mathscr{I}_\lambda^n$ of the rank $\leqslant n$ is the
trivial semigroup.

Let G be a finite group. A subgroup M of G is said to be an NR-subgroup if,
whenever K is normal in M, then K^G\cap M=K, where K^G is the normal closure of
K in G. Using the Classification of Finite Simple Groups, we prove that if
every maximal subgroup of G is an NR -subgroup then G is solvable. This gives a
positive answer to a conjecture posed in Berkovich (Houston J Math 24:631-638,
1998).

We apply the approximating chiral quark model. This chiral quark model is
based on an effective Lagrangian which the interactions between quarks via
sigma and pions mesons. The field equations have been solved in the mean field
approximation for the hedgehog baryon state. Good results are obtained for
nucleon properties in comparison with original model.

We discuss quantum graphs consisting of a compact part and semiinfinite
leads. Such a system may have embedded eigenvalues if some edge lengths in the
compact part are rationally related. If such a relation is perturbed these
eigenvalues may turn into resonances; we analyze this effect both generally and
in simple examples.

Let $X$ be a compact Riemann surface $X$ of genus at--least two. Fix a
holomorphic line bundle $L$ over $X$. Let $\mathcal M$ be the moduli space of
Hitchin pairs $(E ,\phi\in H^0(End(E)\otimes L))$ over $X$ of rank $r$ and
fixed determinant of degree $d$. We prove that, for some numerical conditions,
$\mathcal M$ is irreducible, and that the isomorphism class of the variety
$\mathcal M$ uniquely determines the isomorphism class of the Riemann surface
$X$.

To a maximal torus in a quasi-split semi-simple simply-connected group over a
local field of characteristic 0, Langlands and Shelstad construct a
cohomological invariant called the splitting invariant, which is an important
component of their endoscopic transfer factors. We study this invariant in the
case of a split real group and prove a decomposition theorem which expresses
this invariant for a general torus as a product of the corresponding invariants
for simple tori. We also show how this reduction formula allows for the
comparison of splitting invariants between different tori in the given real
group.

We consider contact structures on simply-connected 5-manifolds which arise as
circle bundles over simply-connected symplectic 4-manifolds and show that
invariants from contact homology are related to the divisibility of the
canonical class of the symplectic structure. As an application we find new
examples of inequivalent contact structures in the same equivalence class of
almost contact structures with non-zero first Chern class.

We analyze the Cauchy problem for the Klein-Gordon equation on the type IIB
supergravity backgrounds $AdS^5 \times Y^{p,q}$, where $Y^{p,q}$ is any of the
Sasaki-Einstein 5-manifolds recently discovered by Gaunlett, Martelli, Sparks
and Waldram (Adv. Theor. Math. Phys. 8 (2004) 711--734). Although these spaces
are not globally hyperbolic, we prove that there exists a unique admissible
propagator and derive an integral representation thereof using
spectral-theoretic techniques.

We study the one-dimensional Dirac equation with local PT-symmetric
potentials whose discrete eigenfunctions and continuum asymptotic
eigenfunctions are eigenfunctions of the PT operator, too: on these conditions
the bound-state spectra are real and the potentials are reflectionless and
conserve unitarity in the scattering process. Absence of reflection makes it
meaningful to consider also PT-symmetric potentials that do not vanish
asymptotically.

Given an $m$-dimensional closed connected Riemannian manifold $M$ smoothly
isometrically immersed in an $n$-dimensional Riemannian manifold $N$, we
estimate the diameter of $M$ in terms of its mean curvature field integral
under some geometric restrictions, and therefore generalize a recent work of
Topping in the Euclidean case (Comment. Math. Helv., 83 (2008), 539--546).

In this paper we show that if the Stanley-Reisner ring of the simplicial
complex of independent sets of a bipartite graph $G$ satisfies Serre's
condition $S_2$, then $G$ is Cohen-Macaulay. As a consequence, the
characterization of Cohen-Macaulay bipartite graphs due to Herzog and Hibi
carries over this family of bipartite graphs. We check that the equivalence of
Cohen-Macaulay property and the condition $S_2$ is also true for chordal graphs
and we classify cyclic graphs with respect to the condition $S_2$.

Let \Delta be the Okounkov body of a divisor D on a projective variety X. We
describe a geometric criterion for \Delta to be a lattice polytope, and show
that in this situation X admits a flat degeneration to the corresponding toric
variety. This degeneration is functorial in an appropriate sense.

We prove that all the meromorphic solutions of the nonlinear differential
equation c0 u"' + 6 u^4 + c1 u" + c2 u u' + c3 u^3 + c4 u'+ c5 u^2 + c6 u +c7=0
are elliptic or degenerate elliptic, and we build them explicitly.

C.H. Yang discovered a polynomial version of the classical Lagrange identity
expressing the product of two sums of four squares as another sum of four
squares. He used it to give short proofs of some important theorems on
composition of delta-codes (now known as T-sequences). We investigate the
possible new versions of his polynomial Lagrange identity. Our main result
shows that all such identities are equivalent to each other.

We generalize the theorem of E. Cattani, P. Deligne, and A. Kaplan to
admissible variations of mixed Hodge structure.

We prove several necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of
(smooth) transition probability densities for L\'evy processes and isotropic
L\'evy processes. Under some mild conditions on the characteristic exponent we
calculate the asymptotic behaviour of the transition density as $t\to 0$ and
$t\to\infty$ and show a ratio-limit theorem.

We introduce the notion of skew-holomorphic Lie algebroid on a complex
manifold, and explore some cohomologies theories that one can associate to it.
Examples are given in terms of holomorphic Poisson structures of various sorts.

In two recent papers necessary and sufficient conditions for a given system
of second-order ordinary differential equations to be of Lagrangian form with
additional dissipative forces were derived. We point out that these conditions
are not independent and prove a stronger result accordingly.

We study homologically maximizing timelike geodesics in conformally flat
tori. A causal geodesic $\gamma$ in such a torus is said to be homologically
maximizing if one (hence every) lift of $\gamma$ to the universal cover is
arclength maximizing. First we prove a compactness result for homologically
maximizing timelike geodesics. This yields the Lipschitz continuity of the time
separation of the universal cover on strict sub-cones of the cone of future
pointing vectors. Then we introduce the stable time separation $\mathfrak{l}$.
As an application we prove relations between the concavity properties of
$\mathfrak{l}$ and the qualitative behavior of homologically maximizing
geodesics.

Given any possibly unbounded, locally finite link, we show that there exists
a smooth diffeomorphism transforming this link into a set of stream (or vortex)
lines of a vector field that solves the steady incompressible Euler equation in
$\mathbb{R}^3$. Furthermore, the diffeomorphism can be chosen arbitrarily close
to the identity in any $C^r$ norm.

The monoidal category of Soergel bimodules categorifies the Hecke algebra of
a finite Weyl group. In the case of the symmetric group, morphisms in this
category can be drawn as graphs in the plane. We define a quotient category,
also given in terms of planar graphs, which categorifies the Temperley-Lieb
algebra. Certain ideals appearing in this quotient are related both to the
1-skeleton of the Coxeter complex and to the topology of 2D cobordisms. We
demonstrate how further subquotients of this category will categorify the cell
modules of the Temperley-Lieb algebra.

In this note we use an example of Mukai to construct semistable bundles of
rank 3 with 6 independent sections on a curve of genus 9 or 11 with Clifford
index strictly less than the Clifford index of the curve. The example also
allows us to show the non-emptiness of some Brill-Noether loci with negative
expected dimension.

We prove that a finitely generated group contains a sequence of non-trivial
elements which converge to the identity in every compact homomorphic image if
and only if the group is not virtually abelian.

We use the heat flow on the loop space of a closed Riemannian manifold to
construct an algebraic chain complex. The chain groups are generated by
perturbed closed geodesics. The boundary operator is defined in the spirit of
Floer theory by counting, modulo time shift, heat flow trajectories that
converge asymptotically to nondegenerate closed geodesics of Morse index
difference one.

In this paper it is shown that unique solutions to the relativistic Boltzmann
equation exist for all time and decay with any polynomial rate towards their
steady state relativistic Maxwellian provided that the initial data starts out
sufficiently close in $L^\infty_\ell$. If the initial data are continuous then
so is the corresponding solution. We work in the case of a spatially periodic
box. Conditions on the collision kernel are generic in the sense of
(Dudy{\'n}ski and Ekiel-Je{\.z}ewska, Comm. Math. Phys., 1988); this resolves
the open question of global existence for the soft potentials.

The central extension of the mapping class groups of punctured surfaces of
finite type that arises in quantum Teichm\"uller theory is 12 times the Meyer
class plus the Euler classes of the punctures. This is analogous to the result
obtained in \cite{FS} for the Thompson groups.

We characterize the space of the so-called planar mixed automorphic forms of
type $(\nu,\mu)$ with respect to an equivariant pair $(\rho,\tau)$ as the
image, by an appropriate transform, of the usual (Landau) automorphic forms
involving special multiplier.

Motivated by representation theory and geometry, we introduce and develop an
equivariant generalization of Ehrhart theory, the study of lattice points in
dilations of lattice polytopes. We prove representation-theoretic analogues of
numerous classical results, and give applications to the Ehrhart theory of
rational polytopes and centrally symmetric polytopes. We also recover a
character formula of Procesi, Dolgachev, Lunts and Stembridge for the action of
a Weyl group on the cohomology of a toric variety associated to a root system.

Based on the recent work of Arsovski, we confirm a conjecture of Feng, Sun,
and Xiang, and we give a shortened proof of Snevily's conjecture.

Recently, Biswas and Milovic [Appl. Math. Comput. 208 (2009) 209-302] have
found optical one-soliton solutions of a fourth order dispersive cubic-quintic
nonlinear Schr\"odinger equation. In this comment, we first show there are
mistakes in the paper and demonstrate that the obtained solutions do not
satisfy the considered equation. And then we reconstruct a series of analytical
exact solutions by means of a direct ansatz method and F-expansion method.
These solutions include solitary wave solutions of the bell shape, solitary
wave solutions of the kink shape, and periodic wave solutions of Jacobian
elliptic function.

We conjecture an explicit formula for the higher dimensional Dirichlet
character; the formula is based on the K-theory of the so-called noncommutative
tori. It is proved, that our conjecture is true for the two-dimensional and
one-dimensional (degenerate) noncommutative tori; in the second case, one gets
a noncommutative analog of the Artin reciprocity law.

The generalization of the factorization method performed by Mielnik [J. Math.
Phys. {\bf 25}, 3387 (1984)] opened new ways to generate exactly solvable
potentials in quantum mechanics. We present an application of Mielnik's method
to hypergeometric type operators. It is based on some solvable Riccati
equations and leads to a unitary description of the quantum systems exactly
solvable in terms of orthogonal polynomials or associated special functions.

For any Lie algebroid A, its 1-jet bundle JA is a Lie algebroid naturally and
there is a representation \pi: JA ->DA. Denote by dJ the corresponding
coboundary operator. In this paper, we realize the deformation cohomology of a
Lie algebroid A introduced by M. Crainic and I. Moerdijk as the cohomology of a
subcomplex (\Gamma(Hom(^\bulletJA,A)DA), dJ) of the cochain complex
(\Gamma(Hom(^\bulletJA,A)), dJ).

Fractional control systems with the Caputo derivative are considered. The
modified controllability Gramian and the minimum energy optimal control problem
are investigated. Construction of minimizing steering controls for the modified
energy functional are proposed.

In this paper, we use the general quantization method by Drinfel'd twists to
quantize the Schr\"odinger-Virasoro Lie algebra whose Lie bialgebra structures
were recently discovered by Han-Li-Su. We give two different kinds of Drinfel'd
twists, which are then used to construct the corresponding
  Hopf algebraic structrues. Our results extend the class of examples of
noncommutative and noncocommutative Hopf algebras.

We prove triviality results for Einstein warped products with non-compact
bases. These extend previous work by D.-S. Kim and Y.-H. Kim. The proof, from
the viewpoint of "quasi-Einstein manifolds" introduced by J. Case, Y.-S. Shu
and G. Wei, rely on maximum principles at infinity and Liouville-type theorems.

We describe dualities and complexes of logarithmic forms and differentials
for central affine and corresponding projective arrangements. We generalize the
Borel-Serre formula from vector bundles to sheaves on projective d-space with
locally free resolutions of length one. Combining these results we present a
generalization of a formula due to Mustata and Schenck, relating the Poincare
polynomial of an arrangement in projective 3-space (or a locally tame
arrangement in projective d-space with zero-dimensional non-free locus) to the
total Chern polynomial of its sheaf of logarithmic 1-forms.

We show that the subsurface projection of a train track splitting sequence is
an unparameterized quasi-geodesic in the curve complex of the subsurface. For
the proof we introduce induced tracks, efficient position, and wide curves.
  This result is an important step in the proof that the disk complex is Gromov
hyperbolic. As another application we show that train track sliding and
splitting sequences give quasi-geodesics in the train track graph, generalizing
a result of Hamenstaedt [Invent. Math.].

We prove the conjecture of Kac-Wakimoto on the rationality of exceptional
W-algebras for the first non-trivial series, namely, for the
Bershadsky-Polyakov vertex algebras $W_3^{(2)}$ at level $k=p/2-3$ with
$p=3,5,7,...$. This gives new examples of rational conformal field theories.

One of the most effective techniques of experimental mathematics is to
compute mathematical entities such as integrals, series or limits to high
precision, then attempt to recognize the resulting numerical values. Recently
these techniques have been applied with great success to problems in
mathematical physics. Notable among these applications are the identification
of some key multi-dimensional integrals that arise in Ising theory, quantum
field theory and in magnetic spin theory.

We prove that the finite generation of adjoint rings proved in [Cascini and
Lazi\'c] implies all the foundational results of the Minimal Model Program: the
Rationality, Cone and Contraction theorems, the existence of flips, and
termination of flips with scaling in the presence of a big boundary.

Bound and scattering states of a non-central extension of the
three-dimensional Kepler-Coulomb Hamiltonian are worked out analytically within
the framework of the potential groups of the problem, SO(7) for bound states
and SO(6,1) for scattering states. In the latter case, the S matrix is
calculated by the method of intertwining operators.

We consider a gas of quasi-free quantum particles confined to a finite box,
subjected to singular magnetic and electric fields. We prove in great
generality that the finite volume grand-canonical pressure is jointly analytic
in the chemical potential ant the intensity of the external magnetic field. We
also discuss the thermodynamic limit.

Some nonlinear extensions of the vector maximality statement established by
Goepfert, Tammer and Zalinescu [Nonl. Anal., 39 (2000), 909-922] are given.
Basic instruments for these are the Brezis-Browder ordering principle [Advances
Math., 21 (1976), 355-364] and a (pseudometric) version of it obtained in
Turinici [Demonstr. Math., 22 (1989), 213-228].

A boundary one point function related to the boundary spontaneous
polarization, which is different from the ones considered in the past, is
studied for the six vertex model on a 2N \times N lattice with domain wall
boundary condition and left reflecting end. It is expressible in terms of a
special kind of coordinate space wave functions, which can be expressed as
determinants.

The majorization order on $\RR^n$ induces a natural partial ordering on the
space of univariate hyperbolic polynomials of degree $n$. We characterize all
linear operators on polynomials that preserve majorization, and show that it is
sufficient (modulo obvious degree constraints) to preserve hyperbolicity.

We study spectral properties of Dirichlet Laplacian on the conical layer of
the opening angle $\pi-2\theta$ and thickness equal to $\pi$. We demonstrate
that below the continuum threshold which is equal to one there is an infinite
sequence of isolated eigenvalues and analyze properties of these geometrically
induced bound states. By numerical computation we find examples of the
eigenfunctions.

An alternative and combinatorial proof is given for a connection between a
system of Hahn polynomials and identities for symmetric elements in the
Heisenberg algebra, which was first observed by Bender, Mead, and Pinsky [Phys.
Rev. Lett. 56 (1986), J. Math. Phys. 28, 509 (1987)] and proved by Koornwinder
[J. Phys. Phys. 30(4), 1989]. In the same vein two results announced by Bender
and Dunne [J. Math. Phys. 29 (8), 1988] connecting a special one-parameter
class of Hermitian operator orderings and the continuous Hahn polynomials are
also proved.

We give a cohomological criterion for existence of outer automorphisms of a
semisimple algebraic group over an arbitrary field. This criterion is then
applied to the special case of groups of type D_2n over a global field, which
completes some of the main results from the paper "Weakly commensurable
arithmetic groups and isospectral locally symmetric spaces" (Pub. Math. IHES,
2009) by Prasad and Rapinchuk and gives a new proof of a result from another
paper by the same authors.

A generalization of the cosine of the Friedrichs angle between two subspaces
to a parameter associated to several closed subspaces of a Hilbert space is
given. This parameter is used to analyze the rate of convergence in the von
Neumann-Halperin method of cyclic alternating projections. General dichotomy
theorems are proved, in the Hilbert or Banach space situation, providing
conditions under which the alternative QUC/ASC (quick uniform convergence
versus arbitrarily slow convergence) holds. Several meanings for ASC are
proposed.

We prove that open Gromov-Witten invariants for semi-Fano toric manifolds of
the form $X=\mathbb{P}(K_Y\oplus\mathcal{O}_Y)$, where $Y$ is a toric Fano
manifold, are equal to certain 1-pointed closed Gromov-Witten invariants of
$X$. As applications, we compute the mirror superpotentials for these
manifolds. In particular, this gives a simple proof for the formula of the
mirror superpotential for the Hirzebruch surface $\mathbb{F}_2$.

Given a real analytic set X in a complex manifold and a positive integer d,
denote by A(d) the set of points p in X at which there exists a germ of a
complex analytic set of dimension d contained in X. It is proved that A(d) is a
closed semianalytic subset of X.

In [A.W. Harrow and R.A. Low, Commun. Math. Phys. 291, 257-302 (2009)], it
was shown that a quantum circuit composed of random 2-qubit gates converges to
an approximate quantum 2-design in polynomial time. We point out and correct a
flaw in one of the paper's main arguments. Our alternative argument highlights
the role played by transpositions induced by the random gates in achieving
convergence.

The notion of spherically symmetric superfunctions as functions invariant
under the orthosymplectic group is introduced. This leads to dimensional
reduction theorems for differentiation and integration in superspace. These
spherically symmetric functions can be used to solve orthosymplectically
invariant Schroedinger equations in superspace, such as the (an)harmonic
oscillator or the Kepler problem. Finally the obtained machinery is used to
prove the Funk-Hecke theorem and Bochner's relations in superspace.

In the nonabelian tensor product $G\otimes H$ of two groups $G$ and $H$ many
properties pass from $G$ and $H$ to $G\otimes H$. There is a wide literature
for different properties involved in this passage. We look at weak conditions
for which such a passage may happen.

We prove that the set of orthogonal projections on a Hilbert space equipped
with the length metric is $\frac\pi2$-geodesic. As an application, we consider
the problem of variation of spectral subspaces for bounded linear self-adjoint
operators and obtain a new estimate on the norm of the difference of two
spectral projections associated with isolated parts of the spectrum of the
perturbed and unpertubed operators, respectively. In particular, recent results
by Kostrykin, Makarov and Motovilov from [Trans. Amer. Math. Soc., V. 359, No.
1, 77 -- 89] and [Proc. Amer. Math. Soc., 131, 3469 -- 3476] are sharpened.

The orbit decomposition is given under the automorphism group on the real
split Jordan algebra of all hermitian matrices of order three corresponding to
any real split composition algebra, or the automorphism group on the
complexification, explicitly, in terms of the cross product of H. Freudenthal
and the characteristic polynomial.

A nearlattice is a join semilattice such that every principal filter is a
lattice with respect to the induced order. Hickman and later Chajda et al
independently showed that nearlattices can be treated as varieties of algebras
with a ternary operation satisfying certain axioms. Our main result is that the
variety of nearlattices is 2-based, and we exhibit an explicit axiom system of
two independent identities. We also show that the original axiom systems of
Hickman and of Chajda et al are, respectively, dependent.

We present a general construction of Salem numbers via rational functions
whose zeros and poles mostly lie on the unit circle and satisfy an interlacing
condition. This extends and unifies earlier work. We then consider the
"obvious" limit points of the set of Salem numbers produced by our theorems,
and show that these are all Pisot numbers, in support of a conjecture of Boyd.
We then show that all Pisot numbers arise in this way. Combining this with a
theorem of Boyd, we show that all Salem numbers are produced via an interlacing
construction.

In this paper we provide a detailed proof of the second variation formula,
essentially due to Richard Hamilton, Tom Ilmanen and the first author, for
Perelman's $\nu$-entropy. In particular, we correct an error in the stability
operator stated in Theorem 6.3 of [2]. Moreover, we obtain a necessary
condition for linearly stable shrinkers in terms of the least eigenvalue and
its multiplicity of certain Lichnerowicz type operator associated to the second
variation.

We have extended previous results on the threshold expansion of the gluon
coefficient function for the charm contribution to the deep-inelastic structure
function F_2 by deriving all threshold-enhanced contributions at the
next-to-next-to-leading order. The size of these corrections is briefly
illustrated, and a first step towards extending this improvement to more
differential charm-production cross sections is presented.

In a previous paper the authors developed an operator-algebraic approach to
Lewis Bowen's sofic measure entropy that yields invariants for actions of
countable sofic groups by homeomorphisms on a compact metrizable space and by
measure-preserving transformations on a standard probability space. We show
here that these measure and topological entropy invariants both coincide with
their classical counterparts when the acting group is amenable.

We study the typical behavior of bounded linear operators on infinite
dimensional complex separable Hilbert spaces in the norm, strong-star, strong,
weak polynomial and weak topologies. In particular, we investigate typical
spectral properties, the problem of unitary equivalence of typical operators,
and their embeddability into C_0-semigroups. Our results provide information on
the applicability of Baire category methods in the theory of Hilbert space
operators.

In this paper we present a new criterion on characterization of real inner
product spaces. We conclude that a real normed space $(X, \|...\|)$ is an inner
product space if $$\sum_{\epsilon_i \in \{-1,1\}} \|x_1 +
\sum_{i=2}^k\epsilon_ix_i\|^2=\sum_{\epsilon_i \in \{-1,1\}} (\|x_1\| +
\sum_{i=2}^k\epsilon_i\|x_i\|)^2,$$ for some positive integer $k\geq 2$ and all
$x_1, ..., x_k \in X$. Conversely, if $(X, \|...\|)$ is an inner product space,
then the equality above holds for all $k\geq 2$ and all $x_1, ..., x_k \in X$.

A covariant functor from the category of mapping tori to a category of
AF-algebras is constructed; the functor takes continuous maps between such
manifolds to stable homomorphisms between the corresponding AF-algebras. We use
this functor to develop an obstruction theory for the torus bundles of
dimension 2, 3 and 4.

We describe a family of calibrations arising naturally on a hyperk\"ahler
manifold $M$. These calibrations calibrate the holomorphic Lagrangian,
holomorphic isotropic and holomorphic coisotropic subvarieties. When $M$ is an
HKT (hyperkaehler with torsion) manifold with holonomy $SL(n, {\Bbb H})$, we
construct another family of calibrations $\Phi_i$, which calibrates holomorphic
Lagrangian and holomorphic coisotropic subvarieties. The calibrations $\Phi_i$
are (generally speaking) not parallel with respect to any torsion-free
connection on $M$.

This paper considers a parametrized family of generalized Takagi functions
f_p with parameter p. Tabor and Tabor [J. Math. Anal. Appl. 356 (2009),
729-737] recently proved that for p in [1,2], f_p is (1,p)-midconvex. We give a
simpler proof of this result by developing an explicit expression for f_p at
dyadic rational points and showing that (1,p)-midconvexity of f_p reduces to a
simple inequality for weighted sums of binary digits.

We study the global existence of solutions to a two-component generalized
Hunter-Saxton system in the periodic setting. We first prove a persistence
result of the solutions. Then for some particular choices of parameters
$(\alpha, \kappa)$, we show the precise blow-up scenarios and the existence of
global solutions to the generalized Hunter-Saxton system under proper
assumptions on the initial data. This significantly improves recent results
obtained in [M. Wunsch, DCDS Ser. B 12 (2009), 647-656] and [M. Wunsch, SIAM J.
Math. Anal. 42 (2010), 1286-1304].

We study some properties of a class of random connected planar fractal sets
induced by a Poissonian scale-invariant and translation-invariant point
process. Using the second-moment method, we show that their Hausdorff
dimensions are deterministic and equal to their expectation dimension. We also
estimate their low-intensity limiting behavior. This applies in particular to
the "conformal loop ensembles" defined via Poissonian clouds of Brownian loops
for which the expectation dimension has been computed by Schramm, Sheffield and
Wilson.

We discuss spectral and resonance properties of a Hamiltonian describing
motion of an electron moving on a "hybrid surface" consisting on a halfline
attached by its endpoints to a plane under influence of a constant magnetic
field which interacts with its spin through a Rashba-type term.

By using some recent results for divergence form equations, we study the
$L_p$-solvability of second-order elliptic and parabolic equations in
nondivergence form for any $p\in (1,\infty)$. The leading coefficients are
assumed to be in locally BMO spaces with suitably small BMO seminorms. We not
only extend several previous results by Krylov and Kim [14]-[18] to the full
range of $p$, but also deal with equations with more general coefficients.

We prove an implicit function theorem for functions on infinite-dimensional
Banach manifolds, invariant under the (local) action of a finite dimensional
Lie group. Motivated by some geometric variational problems, we consider group
actions that are not necessarily differentiable everywhere, but only on some
dense subset. Applications are discussed in the context of harmonic maps,
closed (pseudo-)Riemannian geodesics, and constant mean curvature
hypersurfaces.

Mixed 3-structures are odd-dimensional analogues of paraquaternionic
structures. They appear naturally on lightlike hypersurfaces of almost
paraquaternionic hermitian manifolds. We study invariant and anti-invariant
submanifolds in a manifold endowed with a mixed 3-structure and a compatible
(semi-Riemannian) metric. Particular attention is given to two cases of ambient
space: mixed 3-Sasakian and mixed 3-cosymplectic.

Suppose H is a space of functions on X. If H is a Hilbert space with
reproducing kernel then that structure of H can be used to build distance
functions on X. We describe some of those and their interpretations and
interrelations. We also present some computational properties and examples.

In this paper, we continue to study properties of rational approximations to
Euler's constant and values of the Gamma function defined by linear
recurrences, which were found recently by A. I. Aptekarev and T. Rivoal. Using
multiple Jacobi-Laguerre orthogonal polynomials we present rational
approximations to the quotient of values of the Gamma function at rational
points. As a limit case of our result, we obtain new explicit formulas for
numerators and denominators of the Aptekarev approximants to Euler's constant.

We generalize a Brian\c{c}on-Skoda type theorem first studied by Aberbach and
Huneke. With some conditions on a regular local ring $(R,\m)$ containing a
field, and an ideal $I$ of $R$ with analytic spread $\ell$ and a minimal
reduction $J$, we prove that for all $w \geq -1$, $ \bar{I^{\ell+w}} \subseteq
J^{w+1} \mathfrak{a} (I,J),$ where $\mathfrak{a}(I,J)$ is the coefficient ideal
of $I$ relative to $J$, i.e. the largest ideal $\mathfrak{b}$ such that
$I\mathfrak{b}=J\mathfrak{b}$. Previously, this result was known only for
$\m$-primary ideals.

Using probabilistic ideas, we prove that the packing dimension of a mean
porous measure is strictly smaller than the dimension of the ambient space.
Moreover, we give an explicit bound for the packing dimension, which is
asymptotically sharp in the case of small porosity. This result was stated in
[D. B. Beliaev and S. K. Smirnov, "On dimension of porous measures", Math. Ann.
323 (2002) 123-141], but the proof given there is not correct. We also give
estimates on the dimension of weakly mean porous measures, which improve
another result of Beliaev and Smirnov.

In the context of the Dunkl transform a complete orthogonal system arises in
a very natural way. This paper studies the weighted norm convergence of the
Fourier series expansion associated to this system. We establish conditions on
the weights, in terms of the $A_p$ classes of Muckenhoupt, which ensure the
convergence. Necessary conditions are also proved, which for a wide class of
weights coincide with the sufficient conditions.

We give a one-dimensional interpretation of the four-dimensional twisted N=1
superYang-Mills theory on a Kaehler manifold by performing an appropriate
dimensional reduction. We prove the existence of a 6-generator superalgebra,
which does not possess any invariant Lagrangian but contains two different
subalgebras that determine the twisted and untwisted formulations of the N=1
superYang-Mills theory.

We show that the canonical central extension of the group of sections of a
Lie group bundle over a compact manifold, constructed in [NW09], is universal.
In doing so, we prove universality of the corresponding central extension of
Lie algebras in a slightly more general setting.

In this paper we derive a new class of sum rules for products of the Bessel
functions of first kind. Using standard algebraic manipulations we extend some
of the well known properties of $J_n$. Some physical applications of the
results are also discussed. A comparison with the Newberger[J. Math. Phys.
\textbf{23} (1982) 1278] sum rules is performed on a typical example.

A frequently cited theorem says that for n > 0 and prime p, the sum of the
first p n-th powers is congruent to -1 modulo p if p-1 divides n, and to 0
otherwise. We survey the main ingredients in several known proofs. Then we give
an elementary proof, using an identity for power sums proven by Pascal in 1654.
An application is a simple proof of a congruence for certain sums of binomial
coefficients, due to Hermite and Bachmann.

In this paper we introduce the models for $(\infty, n)$-categories which have
been developed to date, as well as the comparisons between them that are known
and conjectured. We review the role of $(\infty, n)$-categories in the proof of
the Cobordism Hypothesis.

We show that the usual sufficient criterion for a generic hypersurface in a
smooth projective manifold to have the same Picard number as the ambient
variety can be generalized to hypersurfaces in complete simplicial toric
varieties. This sufficient condition is always satisfied by generic K3 surfaces
embedded in Fano toric 3-folds.

In this paper, the author discusses the eigenvalues and entropies under the
harmonic-Ricci flow, which is the Ricci flow coupled with the harmonic map
flow. We give an alternative proof of results for compact steady and expanding
harmonic-Ricci breathers. In the second part, we derive some monotonicity
formulas for eigenvalues of Laplacian under the harmonic-Ricci flow. Finally,
we obtain the first variation of the shrinker and expanding entropies of the
harmonic-Ricci flow.

Non-time reversible phonobreathers are non-linear waves that can transport
energy in coupled oscillator chains by means of a phase-torsion mechanism. In
this paper, the stability properties of these structures have been considered.
It has been performed an analytical study for low-coupling solutions based upon
the so called {\em multibreather stability theorem} previously developed by
some of the authors [Physica D {\bf 180} 235]. A numerical analysis confirms
the analytical predictions and gives a detailed picture of the existence and
stability properties for arbitrary frequency and coupling.

We show that the Kulikov surfaces form a connected component of the moduli
space of surfaces of general type with p_g=0 and K^2=6. We also give a new
description for the surfaces, extending ideas of Inoue. Finally we calculate
the bicanonical degree of a Kulikov surface, and prove that they verify the
Bloch conjecture.

The main results of this note are: It is consistent that every subparacompact
space $X$ of size $\omega_1$ is a $D$-space; If there exists a Michael space,
then all productively Lindel\"of spaces have the Menger property, and,
therefore, are $D$-spaces; and
  Every locally $D$-space which admits a $\sigma$-locally finite cover by
Lindel\"of spaces is a $D$-space.

Let X be a homogeneous space, X = G/H, where G is a connected linear
algebraic group over a number field k, and H is a k-subgroup of G (not
necessarily connected). Let S be a finite set of places of k. We compute the
Brauer-Manin obstruction to weak approximation for X in S in terms of Galois
cohomology.

We introduce a fractional calculus on time scales using the theory of delta
(or nabla) dynamic equations. The basic notions of fractional order integral
and fractional order derivative on an arbitrary time scale are proposed, using
the inverse Laplace transform on time scales. Useful properties of the new
fractional operators are proved.

We prove an h-principle with boundary condition for a certain class of
topological spaces valued sheaves. The techniques used in the proof come from
the study of the homotopy type of the cobordism categories, and they are of
simplicial and categorical nature. Applying the main result of this paper to a
certain sheaf we find another proof of the Madsen-Weiss theorem, that describes
the homotopy type of the classifying space of the cobordism category as the
loop space of the Thom space of the complement of the tautological bundle over
the Grassmannians.

We study the singular set of a singular Levi-flat real-analytic hypersurface.
We prove that the singular set of such a hypersurface is Levi-flat in the
appropriate sense. We also show that if the singular set is small enough, then
the Levi-foliation extends to a singular codimension one holomorphic foliation
of a neighborhood of the hypersurface.

We present some classification results for quasitoric manifolds (M) with
(p_1(M)=-\sum a_i^2) for some (a_i\in H^2(M)) which admit an action of a
compact connected Lie-group (G) such that (\dim M/G \leq 1). In contrast to
Kuroki's work we do not require that the action of (G) extends the torus action
on (M).

The stationary Maxwell-Born-Infeld field equations of electromagnetism with
integrable regular sources in a Hoelder space are solved using a perturbation
series expansion in powers of Born's electromagnetic constant. The convergence
of the power series for the fields is proved with the help of Banach algebra
arguments and complex analysis. The finite radius of convergence depends on the
norm of both, the Coulombfield generated by the charge density and the Amp`ere
field generated by the current density. No symmetry is assumed.

We study two families of integer vectors playing a crucial part in the
structural theory of cluster algebras: the $\gg$-vectors parameterizing cluster
variables, and the $\cc$-vectors parameterizing the coefficients. We prove two
identities relating these vectors to each other. The proofs depend on the
sign-coherence assumption for $\cc$-vectors that still remains unproved in full
generality.

In [J. Math. Phys. 51 (2010) 022104] a self-adjoint operator was introduced
that has the property that it indicates the direction of time within the
framework of standard quantum mechanics, in the sense that as a function of
time its expectation value decreases monotonically for any initial state. In
this paper we study some of this operator's properties. In particular, we
derive its spectrum and generalized eigenstates, and treat the example of the
free particle.

The exterior degree of a pair of finite groups $(G,N)$, which is a
generalization of the exterior degree of finite groups, is the probability for
two elements $(g,n)$ in $(G,N)$ such that $g\wedge n=1$. In the present paper,
we state some relations between this concept and the relative commutatively
degree, capability and the Schur multiplier of a pair of groups.

Consider steady-state weak solutions to the incompressible Navier-Stokes
equations in six spatial dimensions. We prove that the 2D Hausdorff measure of
the set of singular points is equal to zero. This problem was mentioned in 1988
by Struwe [24], during his study of the five dimensional case.

In this paper we use the Lubotzky alternative for finitely generated linear
groups to determine which 4-manifolds admitting a free circle action can be
endowed with a symplectic structure with trivial canonical class. The content
of this paper partly overlaps with the content of the unpublished preprint
"Symplectic 4-manifolds with a free circle action" (arXiv:0801.1313 [math.GT]).

The classical Lie method is applied to a nonisospectral problem associated
with a system of partial differential equations in 2+1 dimensions (Maccari A,
J. Math. Phys. 39, (1998), 6547-6551). Identification of the classical Lie
symmetries provides a set of reductions that give rise to different nontrivial
spectral problems in 1+1 dimensions. The form in which the spectral parameter
of the 1+1 Lax pair is introduced is carefully described.

We review models of biological evolution in which the population frequency
changes deterministically with time. If the population is self-replicating,
although the equations for simple prototypes can be linearised, nonlinear
equations arise in many complex situations. For sexual populations, even in the
simplest setting, the equations are necessarily nonlinear due to the mixing of
the parental genetic material. The solutions of such nonlinear equations
display interesting features such as multiple equilibria and phase transitions.
We mainly discuss those models for which an analytical understanding of such
nonlinear equations is available.

We prove that the Kobayashi distance near boundary of a pseudoconvex
Reinhardt domain $D$ increases asymptotically at most like $-\log d_D+C$.
Moreover, for boundary points from $\text{int}\bar{D}$ the growth does not
exceed $1/2\log(-\log d_D)+C$. The lower estimate by $-1/2\log d_D+C$ is
obtained under additional assumptions of $\mathcal C^1$-smoothness of a domain
and a non-tangential convergence.

We consider the problem of constructing Poisson brackets on smooth manifolds
$M$ with prescribed Casimir functions. If $M$ is of even dimension, we achieve
our construction by considering a suitable almost symplectic structure on $M$,
while, in the case where $M$ is of odd dimension, our objective is achieved by
using a convenient almost cosymplectic structure. Several examples and
applications are presented.

We prove a graph theoretic closed formula for coefficients in the
Tian-Yau-Zelditch asymptotic expansion of the Bergman kernel. The formula is
expressed in terms of the characteristic polynomial of the directed graphs
representing Weyl invariants. The proof relies on a combinatorial
interpretation of a recursive formula due to M. Englis and A. Loi.

We consider stochastic differential equations (SDEs) driven by Feller
processes which are themselves solutions of multivariate Levy driven SDEs. The
solutions of these 'iterated SDEs' are shown to be non-Markovian. However, the
process consisting of the driving process and the solution is Markov and even
Feller in the case of bounded coefficients. The generator as well as the
semimartingale characteristics of this process are calculated explicitly and
fine properties of the solution are derived via the stochastic symbol. A short
simulation study and an outlook in the direction of stochastic modeling round
out the paper.

We construct a linearly normal smooth rational surface S of degree 11 and
sectional genus 8 in the projective fivespace. Surfaces satisfying these
numerical invariants are special, in the sense that $h^1(\mathscr{O}_S(1))>0$.
Our construction is done via linear systems and we describe the configuration
of points blown up in the projective plane. We also present a short list,
generated by the adjunction mapping, of linear systems whom are the only
possibilities for other families of surfaces with the prescribed numerical
invariants.

In this paper, we consider the one-term Edgeworth expansion for finite
population L-statistics. We provide an explicit formula for the Edgeworth
correction term and give sufficient conditions for the validity of the
expansion which are expressed in terms of the weight function that defines the
statistics and moment conditions.

The purpose of this paper is twofold: first we give a survey on the recent
developments of curve counting invariants on Calabi-Yau 3-folds, e.g.
Gromov-Witten theory, Donaldson-Thomas theory and Pandharipande-Thomas theory.
Next we focus on the proof of the rationality conjecture of the generating
series of PT invariants, and discuss its conjectural Gopakumar-Vafa form.

Let $K$ be a number field, and let $K(x_1,...,x_d)$ be the field of rational
fractions in the variables $x_1,...,x_d$. In this paper, we introduce two kinds
of Laplace transform adapted to solutions of the differential
$K(x_1,...,x_d)$-modules with regular singularities, and give some of their
basic differential and arithmetic properties. The purpose of this article is to
provide some tools which might be useful, in particular, for the arithmetic
study of the differential $K(x_1,...,x_d)$-modules associated to $E$-functions
in several variables.

It is shown that Paley-Wiener functions on Riemannian manifolds of bounded
geometry can be reconstructed in a stable way from some countable sets of their
inner products with certain distributions of compact support. A reconstruction
method in terms of frames is given which is a generalization of the classical
result of Duffin-Schaeffer about exponential frames on intervals. All results
are specified in the case of the two-dimensional hyperbolic space in its
Poincare upper half-plane realization.

Let $f$ be a Paley-Wiener function in the space $L_{2}(X)$, where $X$ is a
symmetric space of noncompact type. It is shown that by using the values of $f$
on a sufficiently dense and separated set of points of $X$ one can give an
exact formula for the Helgason-Fourier transform of $f$. In order to find a
discrete approximation to the Helgason-Fourier transform of a function from a
Besov space on $X$ we develop an approximation theory by Paley-Wiener functions
in $L_{2}(X)$.

Cryptographic systems are derived using units in group rings. Combinations of
types of units in group rings give units not of any particular type. This
includes cases of taking powers of units and products of such powers and adds
the complexity of the {\em discrete logarithm} problem to the system.
  The method enables encryption and (error-correcting) coding to be combined
within one system. These group ring cryptographic systems may be combined in a
neat way with existing cryptographic systems, such as RSA, and a combination
has the combined strength of both systems. Examples are given.

We provide an upper bound to the number of graph homomorphisms from $G$ to
$H$, where $H$ is a fixed graph with certain properties, and $G$ varies over
all $N$-vertex, $d$-regular graphs. This result generalizes a recently resolved
conjecture of Alon and Kahn on the number of independent sets. We build on the
work of Galvin and Tetali, who studied the number of graph homomorphisms from
$G$ to $H$ when $H$ is bipartite. We also apply our techniques to graph
colorings and stable set polytopes.

We investigate the ultradiscrete KdV equation with periodic boundary
conditions where the two parameters (capacity of the boxes and that of the
carrier) are arbitrary integers. We give a criterion to allow a periodic
boundary condition when initial states take arbitrary integer values. Conserved
quantities are constructed for the periodic systems. Construction of background
solutions of the periodic ultradiscrete KdV equation from the Jacobi theta
function is also presented.

We prove the Bochner-Weitzenb\"ock formula for the (nonlinear) Laplacian on
general Finsler manifolds and derive Li-Yau type gradient estimates as well as
parabolic Harnack inequalities. Moreover, we deduce Bakry-\'Emery gradient
estimates. All these estimates depend on lower bounds for the weighted flag
Ricci tensor.

We introduce the notion of families of n-marked smooth rational tropical
curves over smooth tropical varieties and establish a one-to-one correspondence
between (equivalence classes of) these families and morphisms from smooth
tropical varieties into the moduli space of n-marked abstract rational tropical
curves.

We consider the $(1,2)$-Sobolev space $W^{1,2}(U)$ on subsets $U$ in an
abstract Wiener space, which is regarded as a canonical Dirichlet space on $U$.
We prove that $W^{1,2}(U)$ has smooth cylindrical functions as a dense subset
if $U$ is $H$-convex and $H$-open. For the proof, the relations between
$H$-notions and quasi-notions are also studied.

The operator equations for quantum hydrodynamics are discussed and solved in
a simple cylindrical geometry. We find a solution with the velocity curl
"frozen" into a density of the liquid in the absence of singular vortex lines.
The spectrum of small oscillations around this solution is found as a
generalization of the standard phonon spectrum, and the stability of the
solution is demonstrated.

We show how the recently discovered solvable rational extensions of Harmonic
Oscillator and Morse potentials can be constructed in a direct and systematic
way, without the need of supersymmetry, shape invariance, Darboux-Crum and
Darboux-B\"acklund transformations

We characterize equicontinuous Delone dynamical systems as those coming from
Delone sets with strongly almost periodic Dirac combs. Within the class of
systems with nite local complexity the only equicontinuous systems are then
shown to be the crystalline ones. On the other hand, within the class without
nite local complexity, we exhibit examples of equicontinuous minimal Delone
dynamical systems which are not crystalline. Our results solve the problem
posed by Lagarias whether a Delone set whose Dirac comb is strongly almost
periodic must be crystalline.

We construct and study the unique random tiling of the hyperbolic plane into
ideal hyperbolic triangles (with the three corners located on the boundary)
that is invariant (in law) with respect to Moebius transformations, and
possesses a natural spatial Markov property that can be roughly described as
the conditional independence of the two parts of the triangulation on the two
sides of the edge of one of its triangles.

Assuming the Riemann hypothesis, we obtain upper and lower bounds for moments
of the Riemann zeta-function averaged over the extreme values between its zeros
on the critical line. Our bounds are very nearly the same order of magnitude.
The proof requires upper and lower bounds for continuous moments of derivatives
of Riemann zeta-function on the critical line.

We derive a lower bound for a second moment of the reciprocal of the
derivative of the Riemann zeta-function averaged over the zeros of the
zeta-function that is half the size of the conjectured value. Our result is
conditional upon the assumption of the Riemann Hypothesis and the conjecture
that the zeros of the zeta-function are simple.

The symmetric group acts on the power set and also on the set of square free
polynomials. These two related representations are analyzed from the stability
point of view. An application is given for the action of the symmetric group on
the cohomology of the pure braid group.

Using class field theory one associates to each curve C over a finite field,
and each subgroup G of its divisor class group, unramified abelian covers of C
whose genus is determined by the index of G. By listing class groups of curves
of small genus one may get examples of curves with many points; we do this for
all curves of genus 2 over the fields of cardinality 5,7,9,11,13 and 16, giving
new entries for the tables of curves with many points (www.manYPoints.org).

We give a list of equivalent conditions for reversibility of the adjoint of a
unital Schwarz map with respect to a set of quantum states. A large class of
such conditions is given by preservation of distinguishability measures:
f-divergences, L_1 -distance, quantum Chernoff and Hoeffding distances; here we
summarize and extend the known results. Moreover, we prove a number of
conditions in terms of the properties of a quantum Radon-Nikodym derivative and
factorization of states in the given set. Finally, we show that reversibility
is equivalent with preservation of a large class of quantum Fisher informations
and \chi^2-divergences.

In this paper we propose task swapping networks for task reassignments by
using task swappings in distributed systems. Some classes of task reassignments
are achieved by using iterative local task swappings between software agents in
distributed systems. We use group-theoretic methods to find a minimum-length
sequence of adjacent task swappings needed from a source task assignment to a
target task assignment in a task swapping network of several well-known
topologies.

In this paper, using combinatorial and analytic methods, we prove an exact
calculating formula on the $2m$-th power mean value of the generalized
quadratic Gauss sums for $m\geq 2$. This solves a conjecture of He and Zhang
[`On the $2k$-th power mean value of the generalized quadratic Gauss sums',
Bull. Korean Math. Soc. 48 (2011), No.1, 9-15].

Multiview geometry is the study of two-dimensional images of
three-dimensional scenes, a foundational subject in computer vision. We
determine a universal Groebner basis for the multiview ideal of n generic
cameras. As the cameras move, the multiview varieties vary in a family of
dimension 11n-15. This family is the distinguished component of a multigraded
Hilbert scheme with a unique Borel-fixed point. We present a combinatorial
study of ideals lying on that Hilbert scheme.

We consider perturbations of Dirac type operators on complete, connected
metric spaces equipped with a doubling measure. Under a suitable set of
assumptions, we prove quadratic estimates for such operators and hence deduce
that these operators have a bounded functional calculus. In particular, we
deduce a Kato square root type estimate.

The potential group method is applied to the n-dimensional
Coulomb-Rosochatius potential, whose bound states and scattering states are
worked out in detail. As far as scattering is concerned, the S-matrix elements
are computed by the method of intertwining operators and an integral
representation is obtained for the scattering amplitude. It is shown that the
maximal superintegrability of the system is due to the underlying potential
group and that the 2n-1 constants of motion are related to Casimir operators of
subgroups.

The Painleve-Calogero correspondence is extended to auxiliary linear problems
associated with Painleve equations. The linear problems are represented in a
new form which has a suggestive interpretation as a "quantized" version of the
Painleve-Calogero correspondence. Namely, the linear problem responsible for
the time evolution is brought into the form of non-stationary Schrodinger
equation in imaginary time, $\p_t \psi =(1/2\, \p_x^2 +V(x,t))\psi$, whose
Hamiltonian is a natural quantization of the classical Calogero-like
Hamiltonian $H=1/2\, p^2 +V(x,t)$ for the corresponding Painleve equation.

We establish a generalization of the Dunkl--Williams inequality and its
inverse in the framework of Hilbert $C^*$-modules and characterize the equality
case. As applications, we get some new results and some known results due to
Pe\v{c}ari\'c and Raji\'c [Linear Algebra Appl. 425 (2007), no. 1, 16--25].

Recently, R. Tauraso established finite $p$-analogues of famous Ap\'ery
series for $\zeta(2)$ and $\zeta(3).$ In this paper, we present several
congruences for finite central binomial sums arising from the truncation of
Ap\'ery-type series for $\zeta(4)$ and $\zeta(5).$ We also prove a $p$-analogue
of Zeilberger's series for $\zeta(2)$ confirming a conjecture of Z. W. Sun.

Given a pair of points in the hyperbolic half plane or the unit disk, we
provide a simple construction of the midpoint of the hyperbolic geodesic
segment joining the points.

In this paper we consider an extremal problem in geometry. Let $\lambda$ be a
real number and $A$, $B$ and $C$ be arbitrary points on the unit circle
$\Gamma$. We give full characterization of the extremal behavior of the
function $f(M,\lambda)=MA^\lambda+MB^\lambda+MC^\lambda$, where $M$ is a point
on the unit circle as well. We also investigate the extremal behavior of
$\sum_{i=1}^nXP_i$, where $P_i, i=1,...,n$ are the vertices of a regular
$n$-gon and $X$ is a point on $\Gamma$, concentric to the circle circumscribed
around $P_1...P_n$. We use elementary analytic and purely geometric methods in
the proof.

We study the deformation-obstruction theory of Koszul cohomology groups of
$g^r_d$'s on singular nodal curves. We compute the obstruction classes for
Koszul cohomology classes on singular curves to deform to a smooth one. In the
case the obstructions are nontrivial, we obtain some partial results for
generic vanishing of Koszul cohomology groups.

A local classification of the Hermitian manifolds with flat associated
connection is given. Hermitian manifolds admitting locally a conformal metric
with flat associated connection are characterized by a curvature identity.
Locally conformal Kaehler manifolds as well as Hermitian surfaces with
vanishing associated conformal curvature tensor are characterized as locally
conformal to a Kaehler manifold of constant holomorphic sectional curvatures.

We establish a one-parameter family of Harnack inequalities connecting the
constrained trace Li-Yau differential Harnack inequality for a nonlinear
parabolic equation to the constrained trace Chow-Hamilton Harnack inequality
for this nonlinear equation with respect to evolving metrics related to Ricci
flow on a 2-dimensional closed manifold. This result can be regarded as a
nonlinear version of the previous work of Y. Zheng and the author (Arch. Math.
94 (2010), 591-600).

We consider the Pauli-Fierz Hamiltonian with dynamical nuclei and investigate
the transitions between the resonant electronic energy levels under the
assumption that there are no free photons in the beginning. Coupling the limits
of small fine structure constant and of heavy nuclei allows us to prove the
validity of the Born-Oppenheimer approximation at leading order and to provide
a simple formula for the rate of spontaneous decay.

Let $\mathcal{J}^1$ be the real form of a complex simple Jordan algebra such
that the automorphism group is $\mathrm{F}_{4(-20)}$. By using some orbit types
of $\mathrm{F}_{4(-20)}$ on $\mathcal{J}^1$, for $\mathrm{F}_{4(-20)}$,
explicitly, we give the Iwasawa decomposition, the Oshima--Sekiguchi's
$K_{\epsilon}-$Iwasawa decomposition, the Matsuki decomposition, and the Bruhat
and Gauss decompositions.

We give a description of Duchamp and Krob's extension of Magnus' approach to
the lower central series of the free group to right-angled Artin groups. We
also describe how Lalonde's extension of Lyndon words to the
partially-commutative settings gives a simple algorithm to find a basis for
consecutive quotients of the lower central series of a RAAG.

We show that nuclear C*-algebras have a refined version of the completely
positive approximation property, in which the maps that approximately factorize
through finite dimensional algebras are convex combinations of order zero maps.
We use this to show that a separable nuclear C*-algebra A which is closely
contained in a C*-algebra B embeds into B.

We establish plurisubharmonicity of envelopes of certain classical disc
functionals on locally irreducible complex spaces, thereby generalizing the
corresponding results for complex manifolds. We also find new formulae
expressing the Siciak-Zaharyuta extremal function of an open set in a locally
irreducible affine algebraic variety as the envelope of certain disc
functionals, similarly to what has been done for open sets in C^n by Lempert
and by Larusson and Sigurdsson.

We discuss three different formulations of the equivariant Iwasawa main
conjecture attached to an extension K/k of totally real fields with Galois
group G, where k is a number field and G is a p-adic Lie group of dimension 1
for an odd prime p. All these formulations are equivalent and hold if Iwasawa's
\mu-invariant vanishes. Under mild hypotheses, we use this to prove non-abelian
generalizations of Brumer's conjecture, the Brumer-Stark conjecture and a
strong version of the Coates-Sinnott conjecture provided that \mu = 0.

It is well-known that the left term of the classical Hermite-Hadamard
inequality is closer to the integral mean value than the right one. We show
that in the multivariate case it is not true. Moreover, we introduce some
related inequality comparing the methods of the approximate integration, which
is optimal. We also present its counterpart of Fejer type.

In this paper, we study the reduced loci of special cycles on local models of
the Shimura variety for GU(1; n-1). We explicitly compute the global structure
of the reduced locus of a single special cycle, as well as of an arbitrary
intersection of special cycles, in terms of Bruhat-Tits theory. Furthermore, as
an application of our results, we prove the connectedness of arbitrary
intersections of special cycles, as conjectured by Kudla and Rapoport.

We prove the following localization for compactness of Hankel operators on
Bergman spaces. Assume that D is a bounded pseudoconvex domain in C^n, p is a
boundary point of D and B(p,r) is a ball centered at p with radius r so that
U=D\cap B(p,r) is connected. We show that if the Hankel operator H^D_f is
compact on A^2(D) (the symbols f is C^1 on the closure of D) then H^U_f is
compact on A^2(U) where A^2(D) and A^2(U) denote the Bergman spaces on D and U,
respectively.

The concept of the elegant work introduced by Levai in Ref. [5] is extended
for the solutions of the Schrodinger equation with more realistic other
potentials used in different disciplines of physics. The connection between the
present model and the other alternative algebraic technique in the literature
is discussed

Let $p$ be a large prime, and let $C$ be a hyperelliptic curve over
$\mathbb{F}_p$. We study the distribution of the $x$-coordinates in short
intervals when the $y$-coordinates lie in a prescribed interval, and the
distribution of the distance between consecutive $x$-coordinates with the same
property. Next, let $g(P,P_0)$ be a rational function of two points on $C$. We
study the distribution of the above distances with an extra condition that
$g(P_i,P_{i+1})$ lies in a prescribed interval, for any consecutive points
$P_i,P_{i+1}$.

Given an ideal J on a smooth variety in characteristic zero, we estimate the
F-jumping numbers of the reductions of J to positive characteristic in terms of
the jumping numbers of J and the characteristic. We apply one of our estimates
to bound the Hartshorne-Speiser-Lyubeznik invariant for the reduction to
positive characteristic of a hypersurface singularity.

We propose a scheme to directly measure the exact value of geometric quantum
discord of an arbitrary two-qubit state. We only need to perform the projective
measurement in the all anti-symmetric subspace and our scheme is parametrically
efficient in contrast to the widely adopted quantum state tomography scheme in
the sense of less parameter estimations and projectors. Moreover, the present
scheme can be easily realized with the current experimental techniques.

We present a general approach to the study of the local distribution of
measures on Euclidean spaces, based on local entropy averages. As concrete
applications, we unify, generalize, and simplify a number of recent results on
local homogeneity, porosity and conical densities of measures.

We prove an Alexandrov type theorem for a quotient space of $\mathbb
H^2\times \mathbb R$. More precisely we classify the compact embedded surfaces
with constant mean curvature in the quotient of $\mathbb H^2\times \mathbb R$
by a subgroup of isometries generated by a parabolic translation along
horocycles of $\mathbb H^2$ and a vertical translation. Moreover, we construct
some examples of periodic minimal surfaces in $\mathbb H^2\times\mathbb R$ and
we prove a multi-valued Rado theorem for small perturbations of the helicoid in
$\mathbb H^2\times\mathbb R$.

The present paper proves that finite symplectic groups of automorphisms of
hyperk\"ahler fourfolds deformation equivalent to the Hilbert scheme of two
points on a $K3$ surface are contained in the simple group $Co_1$. Then we give
an example of a symplectic automorphism of order 11 on the Fano scheme of lines
of a cubic fourfold.

We provide an abstract variational existence and uniqueness result for
multi-valued, monotone, non-coercive stochastic evolution inclusions in Hilbert
spaces with general additive and Wiener multiplicative noise. As examples we
discuss certain singular diffusion equations such as the stochastic 1-Laplacian
evolution (total variation flow) in all space dimensions and the stochastic
singular fast diffusion equation. In case of additive Wiener noise we prove the
existence of a unique weak-* mean ergodic invariant measure.

Mathematical structure of the reflection coefficients for the one-dimensional
Fokker-Planck equation is studied. A new formalism using differential operators
is introduced and applied to the analysis in high- and low-energy regions.
Formulas for high-energy and low-energy expansions are derived, and expressions
for the coefficients of the expansion, as well as the remainder terms, are
obtained for general forms of the potential. Conditions for the validity of
these expansions are discussed on the basis of the analysis of the remainder
terms.

We consider Schr\"odinger equations and Fokker-Planck equations in one
dimension, and study the low-energy asymptotic behavior of the Green function
using a new method. In this method, the coefficient of the expansion in powers
of the wave number can be systematically calculated to arbitrary order, and the
behavior of the remainder term can be analyzed on the basis of an expression in
terms of transmission and reflection coefficients.

Richard Stanely proposed, in a recent Amer. Math. Monthly Problem, to prove a
nice explicit formula for the generating function for the number of n-letter
words in {H,T} that have as many occurrences of HT as HH. In this article, we
show how to prove this problem automatically, and ANY problem of that type,
regardless of the size of the alphabet and the length of the two chosen strings

We consider the problem of enumerating planar constellations with two points
at a prescribed distance. Our approach relies on a combinatorial correspondence
between this family of constellations and the simpler family of rooted
constellations, which we may formulate algebraically in terms of multicontinued
fractions and generalized Hankel determinants. As an application, we provide a
combinatorial derivation of the generating function of Eulerian triangulations
with two points at a prescribed distance.

The notion of the projective hull of a compact set in a complex projective
space was introduced by Harvey and Lawson in 2006. In this paper we describe
the projective hull by Poletsky sequences of analytic discs, in analogy to the
known descriptions of the holomorphic and the plurisubharmonic hull.

We provide new sufficient conditions for Chebyshev estimates for Beurling
generalized primes. It is shown that if the counting function $N$ of a
generalized number system satisfies the $L^{1}$-condition $$
\int_{1}^{\infty}|\frac{N(x)-ax}{x}|\frac{\mathrm{d}x}{x}<\infty $$ and
$N(x)=ax+o(x/\log x),$ for some $a>0$, then $$
0<\liminf_{x\to\infty}\frac{\psi(x)}{x}\ \ \ {and}\ \ \
\limsup_{x\to\infty}\frac{\psi(x)}{x}<\infty $$ hold. We give an analytic proof
of this result. It is based on Wiener division theorem. Our result extends
those of Diamond (Proc. Amer. Math. Soc. 39 (1973), 503--508) and Zhang (Proc.
Amer. Math. Soc. 101 (1987), 205--212).

These are the lecture notes for my course at the 2011 Park City Mathematics
Graduate Summer School. The first two lectures covered the basics of the
Torelli group and the Johnson homomorphism, and the third and fourth lectures
discussed the second cohomology group of the level p congruence subgroup of the
mapping class group, following my papers "The second rational homology group of
the moduli space of curves with level structures" and "The Picard group of the
moduli space of curves with level structures".

A countable set of quantum superintegrable systems for arbitrary spin is
solved explicitly using tools of supersymmetric quantum mechanics. It is shown
that these systems (introduced by Pronko, J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 40 (2007) )
include matrix shape invariant potentials classified recently in A. G. Nikitin
and Y. Karadzhov, J. Phys. A: 44 (2011) 305204; J. Phys. A: 44 (2011) 445202.

If X is a symplectic variety emedded in an affine space as a complete
intersection of homogeneous polynomials, then X coincides with the nilpotent
variety of a semisimple Lie algebra.

The present article investigates the convergence of a class of space-time
discretization schemes for the Cauchy problem for linear parabolic stochastic
partial differential equations (SPDEs) defined on the whole space. Sufficient
conditions are given for accelerating the convergence of the scheme with
respect to the spatial approximation to higher order accuracy by an application
of Richardson's method. This work extends the results of Gy\"ongy and Krylov
[SIAM J. Math. Anal., 42 (2010), pp. 2275--2296] to schemes that discretize in
time as well as space.

We use the Lewis and Riesenfeld invariant method [\textit{J. Math. Phys.}
\textbf{10}, 1458 (1969)] and a unitary transformation to obtain the exact
Schr\"{o}dinger wave functions for time-dependent harmonic oscillators
exhibiting log-periodic-type behavior. For each oscillator we calculate the
quantum fluctuations in the coordinate and momentum as well as the quantum
correlations between the coordinate and momentum. We observe that the
oscillator with $m=m_0t/t_0$ and $\omega= \omega_0t_0/t$, which exhibits an
exact log-periodic oscillation, behaves as the harmonic oscillator with $m$ and
$\omega$ constant.

We construct generators for modules of vector-valued Picard modular forms on
a unitary group of type (2,1) over the Eisenstein integers. We also calculate
eigenvalues of Hecke operators acting on cusp forms.

All real three dimensional Poisson-Lie groups are explicitly constructed and
fully classified under group automorphisms by making use of their one-to-one
correspondence with the complete classification of real three-dimensional Lie
bialgebras given in [X. Gomez, J. Math. Phys. vol. 41, p. 4939 (2000)]. Many of
these 3D Poisson-Lie groups are non-coboundary structures, whose Poisson
brackets are given here for the first time. Casimir functions for all
three-dimensional PL groups are given, and some features of several PL
structures are commented.

A quasitoric manifold $M$ is a $2n$-dimensional manifold which admits an
action of an $n$-dimensional torus which has some nice properties. We determine
the isomorphism type of a maximal compact connected Lie-subgroup $G$ of
$\text{Homeo}(M)$ which contains the torus. Moreover, we show that this group
is unique up to conjugation.

In the studies of dynamics of pathogens and their interactions with a host
immune system, an important role is played by the structure of antigenic
variants associated with a pathogen. Using the example of a model of antigenic
variation in malaria, we show how many of the observed dynamical regimes can be
explained in terms of the symmetry of interactions between different antigenic
variants. The results of this analysis are quite generic, and have wider
implications for understanding the dynamics of immune escape of other
parasites, as well as for the dynamics of multi-strain diseases.

We derive constraints on the existence of walls for Bridgeland stability
conditions for general projective surfaces. We show that in suitable planes of
stability conditions the walls are bounded and derive conditions for when the
number of walls is globally finite. In examples, we show how to use the
explicit conditions to locate walls and sometimes to show that there are no
walls at all.

We investigate the structure of a Finsler manifold of nonnegative weighted
Ricci curvature including a straight line, and extend the classical
Cheeger-Gromoll-Lichnerowicz splitting theorem. Such a space admits a
diffeomorphic, measure-preserving splitting in general. As for a special class
of Berwald spaces, we can perform the isometric splitting in the sense that
there is a one-parameter family of isometries generated from the gradient
vector field of the Busemann function. A Betti number estimate is also given
for Berwald spaces.

In this paper, we introduce the notion of derivations of Lie 2-algebras and
construct the associated derivation Lie 3-algebra. We prove that isomorphism
classes of non-abelian extensions of Lie 2-algebras are classified by
equivalence classes of morphisms from a Lie 2-algebra to a derivation Lie
3-algebra.

Building on the concept of pretentious multiplicative functions, we give a
new and largely elementary proof of the best result known on the counting
function of primes in arithmetic progressions.

We discuss an elementary, yet unsolved, problem of Niederreiter concerning
the enumeration of a class of subspaces of finite dimensional vector spaces
over finite fields. A short and self-contained account of some recent progress
on this problem is included and some related problems are discussed.

We expose different methods of regularizations of subsolutions in the context
of discrete weak KAM theory. They allow to prove the existence and the density
of $C^{1,1}$ subsolutions. Moreover, these subsolutions can be made strict and
smooth outside of the Aubry set.

We prove a Liouville type theorem for entire maximal $m$-subharmonic
functions in $\mathbb C^n$ with bounded gradient. This result, coupled with a
standard blow-up argument, yields a (non-explicit) a priori gradient estimate
for the complex Hessian equation on a compact K\"ahler manifold. This
terminates the program, initiated by Hou, Ma and Wu, of solving the
non-degenerate Hessian equation on such manifolds in full generality. We also
obtain, using our previous work, continuous weak solutions in the degenerate
case for the right hand side in some $L^p, $ with sharp bound on $p$.

In this paper we introduce a notion of Morita equivalence for Hilbert
C*-modules in terms of the Morita equivalence of the algebras of compact
operators on Hilbert C*-modules. We investigate some properties of the new
version of Morita equivalence and obtain some results. We then applied our
results to study the continuous actions of locally compact groups on full
Hilbert C*-modules. We present an extension of Green's theorem in the context
of Hilbert C*-modules as well.

Under several geometric conditions imposed below, the existence of the
discrete spectrum below the essential spectrum is shown for the Dirichlet
Laplacian on the quantum layer built over a spherically symmetric hypersurface
with a pole embedded in the Euclidean space R4. At the end of this paper, we
also show the advantage and independence of our main result comparing with
those existent results for higher dimensional quantum layers or quantum tubes.

We prove by using simple number-theoretic arguments formulae concerning the
number of elements of a fixed order and the number of cyclic subgroups of a
direct product of several finite cyclic groups. We point out that certain
multiplicative properties of related counting functions for finite Abelian
groups are immediate consequences of these formulae.

Let $X$ be a Polish space. We prove that the generic compact set $K\subseteq
X$ (in the sense of Baire category) is either finite or there is a continuous
gauge function $h$ such that $0<\mathcal{H}^{h}(K)<\infty$, where
$\mathcal{H}^h$ denotes the $h$-Hausdorff measure. This answers a question of
C. Cabrelli, U. B. Darji, and U. M. Molter. Moreover, for every weak
contraction $f\colon K\to X$ we have $\mathcal{H}^{h} (K\cap f(K))=0$. This is
a measure theoretic analogue of a result of M. Elekes.

Let $\gamma$ be a non-degenerate Ustilovsky geodesic in $Ham (M, \omega)$
generated by $H$. We give a simple proof of a generalization of the conjecture
stated in \cite{virtmorse}, relating the Morse index of $ \gamma$, as a
critical point of the Hofer length functional, with the Conley Zehnder index of
the extremizers of $H$, considered as periodic orbits.

In this paper we give an upper bound, in characteristic 0, for the
cohomological dimension of a graded ideal in a polynomial ring such that the
quotient has depth at least 3. In positive characteristic the same bound holds
true by a well-known theorem of Peskine and Szpiro. As a corollary, we give new
examples of prime ideals that are not set-theoretically Cohen-Macaulay.

Our goal in this work is to present some function spaces on the complex plane
$\C$, $X(\C)$, for which the quasiregular solutions of the Beltrami equation,
$\bar\partial f (z) = \mu(z) \partial f (z)$, have first derivatives locally in
$X(\C)$, provided that the Beltrami coefficient $\mu$ belongs to $X(\C)$.

We introduce a modified quantum enveloping algebra as well as a (modified)
covering quantum algebra for the ortho-symplectic Lie superalgebra osp(1|2).
Then we formulate and compute the corresponding canonical bases, and relate
them to the counterpart for sl(2). This provides a first example of canonical
basis for quantum superalgebras.

There are 26 possibilities for the torsion group of elliptic curves defined
over quadratic number fields. We present examples of high rank elliptic curves
with given torsion group which give the current records for most of the torsion
groups. In particular, we show that for each possible torsion group, except
maybe for Z/15Z, there exist an elliptic curve over some quadratic field with
this torsion group and with rank >= 2.

We are interested in classifying those sets of primes $\mathcal{P}$ such that
when we sieve out the integers up to $x$ by the primes in $\mathcal{P}^c$ we
are left with roughly the expected number of unsieved integers. In particular,
we obtain the first general results for sieving an interval of length $x$ with
primes including some in $(\sqrt{x},x]$, using methods motivated by additive
combinatorics.

We give a complete classification of irreducible symmetric spaces for which
there exist proper SL(2,R)-actions as isometries, using the criterion for
proper actions by T. Kobayashi [Math. Ann. '89] and combinatorial techniques of
nilpotent orbits. In particular, we classify irreducible symmetric spaces that
admit surface groups as discontinuous groups, combining this with Benoist's
theorem [Ann. Math. '96].

Takamura established a theory on splitting families of degenerations of
complex curves. He introduced a powerful method for constructing a splitting
family, called a barking family, in which there appear not only a singular
fiber over the origin but also singular fibers over other points, called
subordinate fibers. In this paper, for the case of degenerations of elliptic
curves, we determine the types of these subordinate fibers.

Let $t$ be a regular operator between Hilbert $C^*$-modules and $t^\dag$ be
its Moore-Penrose inverse. We investigate the Moore-Penrose invertibility of
the Gram operator $t^*t$. More precisely, we study some conditions ensuring
that $t^{\dag} = (t^* t)^{\dag} t^*= t^* (t t^*)^{\dag}$ and
$(t^*t)^{\dag}=t^{\dag}t^{* \dag}$ hold. As an application, we get some results
for densely defined closed operators on Hilbert $C^*$-modules over
$C^*$-algebras of compact operators.

The propagator of the discrete Schr\"odinger equation is computed and its
properties are revealed through a Feynman path summation in discrete space.
Initial data problems such as diffraction in discrete space and continuous time
are studied analytically by the application of the new propagator. In the
second part of this paper, the analogy between time propagation and 2D
scattering by 1D obstacles is explored. New results are given in the context of
diffraction by edges within a periodic medium. A connection with tight-binding
arrays and photonic crystals is indicated.

An identity by Chaundy and Bullard writes 1/(1-x)^n (n=1,2,...) as a sum of
two truncated binomial series. In a paper which appeared in 2008 in Indag.
Math. the authors surveyed many aspects of this identity. In the present paper
we discuss much earlier occurrences of this identity in works by Hering (1868),
de Moivre (1738) and de Montmort (1713). A relationship with Krawtchouk
polynomials in work by Greville (1966) is also discussed.

Building on prior work, we analyze the decomposition of the restriction of an
irreducible representation of SL_2(k), for k a p-adic field of odd residual
characteristic, to a maximal compact subgroup K. The pattern of the
decomposition varies between principal series and different supercuspidal
representations, whereas the K-representations which occur in the "tail end" of
these decompositions are precisely those occurring in the decomposition of
depth-zero supercuspidal representations. Various applications are considered.

We solve a certain case of the minimal genus problem for embedded surfaces in
elliptic 4-manifolds. The proofs involve a restricted transitivity property of
the action of the orientation preserving diffeomorphism group on the second
homology. In the case we consider we get the minimal possible genus allowed by
the adjunction inequality.

We study curvature pinching estimates of Ricci flow on complete 3-
dimensional manifolds without bounded curvature assumption. We will derive some
general curvature conditions which are preserved on any complete solution of
3-dim Ricci flow, these conditions include nonnegative Ricci curvature and
sectional curvature as special cases. A local version of Hamilton-Ivey
estimates is also obtained.

In this paper we investigate the existence of generically finite dominant
rational maps from products of curves to surfaces of general type. We prove
that the product CxD of two distinct very general curves of genus g>6 and g'>1
does not admit dominant rational maps on other surfaces of general type.

We prove the Lukacs characterization of the Wishart distribution on
non-octonion symmetric cones of rank greater than 2. We weaken the smoothness
assumptions in the version of the Lukacs theorem of [Bobecka-Weso{\l}owski,
Studia Math. 152 (2002), 147-160]. The main tool is a new solution of the
Olkin-Baker functional equation on symmetric cones, under the assumption of
continuity of respective functions. It was possible thanks to the use of
Gleason's theorem.

We prove that if A is a subset of the primes, and the lower density of A in
the primes is larger than 5/8, then all sufficiently large odd positive
integers can be written as the sum of three primes in A. The constant 5/8 in
this statement is the best possible.

For 1<p<infty and for weight w in A_p, we show that the r-variation of the
Fourier sums of any function in L^p(w) is finite a.e. for r larger than a
finite constant depending on w and p. The fact that the variation exponent
depends on w is necessary. This strengthens previous work of Hunt-Young and is
a weighted extension of a variational Carleson theorem of
Oberlin-Seeger-Tao-Thiele-Wright. The proof uses weighted adaptation of phase
plane analysis and a weighted extension of a variational inequality of
Lepingle.

We consider the range of a one-parameter family of self-interacting walks on
the integers up to the time of exit from an interval. We derive the weak
convergence of an appropriately scaled range. We show that the distribution
functions of the limits of the scaled range satisfy a certain class of de
Rham's functional equations. We examine the regularity of the limits.

We give a Quillen equivalence between model structures for simplicial
operads, described via the theory of operads, and Segal operads, thought of as
certain reduced dendroidal spaces. We then extend this result to give an
Quillen equivalence between the model structures for simplicial operads
equipped with a group action and the corresponding Segal operads.

In this paper we study loops, neardomains and nearfields from a categorical
point of view. By choosing the right kind of morphisms, we can show that the
category of neardomains is equivalent to the category of sharply 2-transitive
groups. The other categories are also shown to be equivalent with categories
whose objects are sets of permutations with suitable extra properties.
  Up to now the equivalence between neardomains and sharply 2-transitive groups
was only known when both categories were equipped with the obvious isomorphisms
as morphisms. We thank Hubert Kiechle for this observation.

Following a recent work of Oguiso, we calculate explicitly the groups of
automorphisms and birational automorphisms on a Calabi-Yau manifold with Picard
number two. When the group of birational automorphisms is infinite, we prove
that the Cone conjecture of Morrison and Kawamata holds.

We give an almost complete description of the coarse and uniform
embeddability between Orlicz sequence spaces. We show that the embeddability
between two Orlicz sequence spaces is in most cases determined only by the
values of their upper Matuszewska-Orlicz indices. On the other hand, we present
examples which show that sometimes the embeddability is not determined by the
values of these indices.

We prove that the Brin-Thompson groups sV, also called higher dimensional
Thompson's groups, are of type F_\infty for all natural numbers s. This result
was previously shown for s up to 3, by considering the action of sV on a
naturally associated space. Our key step is to retract this space to a subspace
sX which is easier to analyze.

We investigate smooth approximations of functions, with prescribed gradient
behavior on a distinguished stratified subset of the domain. As an application,
we outline how our results yield important consequences for a recently
introduced class of stochastic processes, called the matrix-valued Bessel
processes.

This paper gives the additivity and reduction formulas for mixed
multiplicities of multi-graded modules $M$ and mixed multiplicities of
arbitrary ideals, and establishes the recursion formulas for the sum of all the
mixed multiplicities of $M.$ As an application of these formulas we get the
recursion formulas for the multiplicity of multi-graded Rees modules.

We consider a model case for a strictly convex domain of dimension $d\geq 2$
with smooth boundary and we describe dispersion for the wave equation with
Dirichlet boundary conditions. More specifically, we obtain the optimal fixed
time decay rate for the smoothed out Green function: a $t^{1/4}$ loss occurs
with respect to the boundary less case, due to repeated occurrences of
swallowtail type singularities in the wave front set.

We investigate certain categories, associated by Fiebig with the geometric
representation of a Coxeter system, via sheaves on Bruhat graphs. We modify
Fiebig's definition of translation functors in order to extend it to the
singular setting and use it to categorify a parabolic Hecke module. As an
application we obtain a combinatorial description of indecomposable projective
objects of (truncated) non-critical singular blocks of (a deformed version of)
category $\mathcal{O}$, using indecomposable special modules over the structure
algebra of the corresponding Bruhat graph.

Let {\mathbb{V} = V x R^l : V \in G(n-l,m-l)} be the family of m-dimensional
subspaces of R^n containing {0} x R^l, and let \pi_{\mathbb{V}} : R^n -->
\mathbb{V} be the orthogonal projection onto \mathbb{V}. We prove that the
mapping V \mapsto Dim \pi_{\mathbb{V}}(B) is almost surely constant for any
analytic set B \subset R^n, where Dim denotes either Hausdorff or packing
dimension.

Consider a Shimura curve $X^D_0(N)$ over the rational numbers. We determine
criteria for the twist by an Atkin-Lehner involution to have points over a
local field. As a corollary we give a new proof of the theorem of
Jordan-Livn\'e on $\mathbf{Q}_p$ points when $p\mid D$ and for the first time
give criteria for $\mathbf{Q}_p$ points when $p\mid N$. We also give congruence
conditions for roots modulo $p$ of Hilbert class polynomials.

We consider the dynamics of hedgehog solutions in the $(3+1)$-dimensional
Skyrme model which is an energy-supercritical problem. We introduce a new
strategy to prove global wellposedness for arbitrarily large initial data.

In (Arch. Rational. Mech. Anal 1986, 92:59-90), Glassey and Strauss showed
that if the growth in the momentum of the particles is controlled, then the
relativistic Vlasov-Maxwell system has a classical solution globally in time.
Later they proved that such control is achieved if the kinetic energy density
of the particles remains bounded for all time (Math. Meth. Appl. Sci. 1987,
9:46-52). Here, we show that the latter assumption can be weakened to the
boundedness of the spatial density.

In this note we discuss an abstract framework for standard boundary value
problems in divergence form with maximal monotone relations as "coefficients".
A reformulation of the respective problems is constructed such that they turn
out to be unitary equivalent to inverting a maximal monotone relation in a
Hilbert space. The method is based on the idea of "tailor-made" distributions
as provided by the construction of extrapolation spaces, see e.g. [Picard,
McGhee: Partial Differential Equations: A unified Hilbert Space Approach.
DeGruyter, 2011]. The abstract framework is illustrated by various examples.

It is a well-known fact that in a Lipschitz domain \Omega\subset R^n a
p-Hardy inequality, with weight d(x,\partial\Omega)^\beta, holds for all u\in
C_0^\infty(\Omega) whenever \beta<p-1. We show that actually the same is true
under the sole assumption that the boundary of the domain satisfies a uniform
density condition with the exponent \lambda=n-1. Corresponding results also
hold for smaller exponents, and, in fact, our methods work in general metric
spaces satisfying standard structural assumptions.

The category of (colored) props is an enhancement of the category of colored
operads, and thus of the category of small categories. In this paper, the
second in a series on "higher props," we show that the category of all small
colored simplicial props admits a cofibrantly generated model category
structure. With this model structure, the forgetful functor from props to
operads is a right Quillen functor.

Nontrivial pairs of zero-divisors in group rings are introduced and
discussed. A problem on the existence of nontrivial pairs of zero-divisors in
group rings of free Burnside groups of odd exponent $n \gg 1$ is solved in the
affirmative. Nontrivial pairs of zero-divisors are also found in group rings of
free products of groups with torsion.

The celebrated Schwarz-Pick lemma for the complex unit disk is the basis for
the study of hyperbolic geometry in one and in several complex variables. In
the present paper, we turn our attention to the quaternionic unit ball B. We
prove a version of the Schwarz-Pick lemma for self-maps of B that are slice
regular, according to the definition of Gentili and Struppa. The lemma has
interesting applications in the fixed-point case, and it generalizes to the
case of vanishing higher order derivatives.

This article considers linear relations between the non-trivial zeroes of the
Riemann zeta-function. The main application is an alternative disproof to
Mertens' conjecture. We show that $\limsup M(x)x^{-1/2} \geq 1.6383$ and that
$\liminf M(x)x^{-1/2}\leq -1.6383$.

The use of the umbral formalism allows a significant simplification of the
derivation of sum rules involving products of special functions and
polynomials. We rederive in this way known sum rules and addition theorems for
Bessel functions. Furthermore, we obtain a set of new closed form sum rules
involving various special polynomials and Bessel functions. The examples we
consider are relevant for applications ranging from plasma physics to quantum
optics.

An arithmetical function $f$ is said to be even (mod r) if f(n)=f((n,r)) for
all n\in\Z^+, where (n, r) is the greatest common divisor of n and r. We adopt
a linear algebraic approach to show that the Discrete Fourier Transform of an
even function (mod r) can be written in terms of Ramanujan's sum and may thus
be referred to as the Discrete Ramanujan-Fourier Transform.

Let R be a commutative noetherian ring. Let M be a finitely generated
R-module. In this paper, we reconstruct M from its Koszul homology with respect
to a suitable sequence of elements of R by taking direct summands, syzygies and
extensions, and count the number of those operations. Using this result, we
consider generation and classification of certain subcategories of the category
of finitely generated R-modules, its bounded derived category and the
singularity category of R.

Assuming the Tate conjecture and the computability of \'etale cohomology with
finite coefficients, we give an algorithm that computes the N\'eron-Severi
group of any smooth projective geometrically integral variety, and also the
rank of the group of numerical equivalence classes of codimension p cycles for
any p.

We study certain spaces of nilpotent orbits in Hodge domains, and treat a
number of examples. More precisely, we compute the Mumford-Tate group of the
limit mixed Hodge structure of a generic such orbit. The result is used to
present these spaces as iteratively fibered algebraic-group orbits in a minimal
way. We conclude with two applications to variations of Hodge structure.

More than 80 years ago Kolmogorov asked the following question. Let
$E\subseteq \mathbb{R}^{2}$ be a measurable set with $\lambda^{2}(E)<\infty$,
where $\lambda^2$ denotes the two-dimensional Lebesgue measure. Does there
exist for every $\varepsilon>0$ a contraction $f\colon E\to \mathbb{R}^{2}$
such that $\lambda^{2}(f(E))\geq \lambda^{2}(E)-\varepsilon$ and $f(E)$ is a
polygon? We answer this question in the negative by constructing a bounded,
simply connected open counterexample. Our construction can easily be modified
to yield the analogous result in higher dimensions.

The original article expressed the special values of the zeta function of a
variety over a finite field in terms of the $\hat{Z}$-cohomology of the
variety. As the article was being completed, Lichtenbaum conjectured the
existence of certain motivic cohomology groups. Progress on his conjecture
allows one to give a beautiful restatement of the main theorem of the article
in terms of $Z$-cohomology groups.

The present paper is devoted to semigroups of nonexpansive mappings on metric
spaces of nonpositive curvature. We show that the Mosco convergence of a
sequence of convex lsc functions implies convergence of the corresponding
resolvents and convergence of the gradient flow semigroups. This extends the
classical results of Attouch, Brezis and Pazy into spaces with no linear
structure. The same method can be further used to show the convergence of
semigroups on a sequence of spaces, which solves a problem of [Kuwae and
Shioya, Trans. Amer. Math. Soc., 2008].

We obtain a $q$-linear analogue of Gegenbauer's expansion of the plane wave.
It is expanded in terms of the little $q$-Gegenbauer polynomials and the
\textit{third} Jackson $q$-Bessel function. The result is obtained by using a
method based on bilinear biorthogonal expansions.

In this paper, we show that the failure of the unique branch hypothesis (UBH)
for tame trees (see \rdef{tame iteration tree}) implies that in some homogenous
generic extension of $V$ there is a transitive model $M$ containing $Ord \cup
\mathbb{R}$ such that $M\vDash AD^+ + \Theta > \theta_0$. In particular, this
implies the existence (in $V$) of a non-tame mouse. The results of this paper
significantly extend Steel's earlier results from \cite{steel2002core} for tame
trees.

Let $I\supsetneq J$ be two square free monomial ideals of a polynomial
algebra over a field generated in degree $\geq 1$, resp. $\geq 2$ . Almost
always when $I$ contains precisely one variable, the other generators having
degrees $\geq 2$, if the Stanley depth of $I/J$ is $\leq 2$ then the usual
depth of $I/J$ is $\leq 2$ too, that is the Stanley Conjecture holds in these
cases.

In this paper we introduce the notion of weak 2-positivity and present some
examples. We establish some operator Cauchy--Schwarz inequalities involving the
geometric mean and give some applications. In particular, we present some
operator versions of Hua's inequality by using the Choi--Davis--Jensen
inequality.

It is shown that the use of the Riemann-Silberstein (RS) vector greatly
simplifies the description of the electromagnetic field both in the classical
domain and in the quantum domain. In this review we describe many specific
examples where this vector enables one to significantly shorten the derivations
and make them more transparent. We also argue why the RS vector may be
considered as the best possible choice for the photon wave function.

We construct a modified double elliptic gamma function which is well defined
when one of the base parameters lies on the unit circle. A model consisting of
6d hypermultiplets coupled to a gauge field theory living on a 4d defect is
proposed whose superconformal index uses the double elliptic gamma function and
obeys W(E7)-group symmetry.

We prove that if a metric measure space satisfies the volume doubling
condition and the Caffarelli-Kohn-Nirenberg inequality with the same exponent
$n \ge 3$, then it has exactly the $n$-dimensional volume growth. As an
application, if an $n$-dimensional Finsler manifold of non-negative $n$-Ricci
curvature satisfies the Caffarelli-Kohn-Nirenberg inequality with the sharp
constant, then its flag curvature is identically zero. In the particular case
of Berwald spaces, such a space is necessarily isometric to a Minkowski space.

This note is the updated outline of the article "Interpolational properties
of planar spiral curves", Fund. and Applied Math., 2001, Vol.7, N.2, 441-463,
published in Russian. The main result establishes boundary regions for spiral
and piecewise spiral splines, matching given data. The width of such region can
serve as the measure of fairness of the point set, subjected to interpolation.
Application to tolerance control of curvilinear profiles is discussed.

We study the Fourier dimensions of graphs of real-valued functions defined on
the unit interval [0,1]. Our results imply that the graph of the fractional
Brownian motion is almost surely not a Salem set, answering in part a question
of Kahane from 1993, and that the graph of a Baire typical function in C[0,1]
has Fourier dimension zero.

A general formalism for the study of excitations above equilibrium in Bethe
ansatz solvable models is presented. Nonzero temperature expressions for
dressed energy, momentum, spin and charge are obtained, and it is found that
the dressed spin and charge are in general momentum dependent. For an
electronic model one may only have spin-charge separation at zero temperature
where the ground state is half-filled and has zero magnetisation. Finally, the
excitations of the Hubbard-Shastry models are examined in detail.

Let $(R,\fm)$ be a local ring and $\fa$ be an ideal of $R$. The inequalities
  $$\begin{array}{ll} \ \Ht(\fa) \leq \cd(\fa,R) \leq \ara(\fa) \leq l(\fa)
\leq \mu(\fa) \end{array}$$ are known. It is an interesting and long-standing
problem to find out the cases giving equality. Thanks to the formal grade we
give conditions in which the above inequalities become equalities.

We give an explicit formula for the log-canonical threshold of a reduced germ
of plane curve. The formula depends only on the first two maximal contact
values of the branches and their intersection multiplicities. We also improve
the two branches formula given in a paper by Kuwata in Amer. J. Math. 121.

Following T.-J. Li, W. Zhang [Comparing tamed and compatible symplectic cones
and cohomological properties of almost complex manifolds, Comm. Anal. Geom.],
we continue to study the link between the cohomology of an almost-complex
manifold and its almost-complex structure. In particular, we apply the same
argument in [T.-J. Li, W. Zhang, Comparing tamed and compatible symplectic
cones and cohomological properties of almost complex manifolds, Comm. Anal.
Geom.] and the results obtained by D. Sullivan in [Cycles for the dynamical
study of foliated manifolds and complex manifolds, Invent. Math.] to study the
cone of semi-K\"ahler structures on a compact semi-K\"ahler manifold.

We prove the rationality of all the minimal series principal W-algebras
discovered by Frenkel, Kac and Wakimoto in 1992, thereby giving a new family of
rational and C_2-cofinite vertex operator algebras. A key ingredient in our
proof is the study of Zhu's algebra of simple W-algebras via the quantized
Drinfeld-Sokolov reduction. We show that the functor of taking Zhu's algebra
commutes with the reduction functor. Using this general fact we determine the
maximal spectrums of the associated graded of Zhu's algebra of all the
admissible affine vertex algebras as well.

We consider the triangular ratio metric and estimate the radius of convexity
for balls in some special domains and prove the inclusion relations of metric
balls defined by the triangular ratio metric, the quasihyperbolic metric and
the $j$-metric.

It is shown that the h-vectors of Stanley-Reisner rings of three classes of
matroids are pure O-sequences. The classes are (a) matroids that are
truncations of other matroids, or more generally of Cohen-Macaulay complexes,
(b) matroids whose dual is (rank + 2)-partite, and (c) matroids of
Cohen-Macaulay type at most five. Consequences for the computational search for
a counterexample to a conjecture of Stanley are discussed.

Let J be a Jacobian variety with toric reduction over a local field K. Let J
-> E be an optimal quotient defined over K, where E is an elliptic curve. We
give examples in which the functorially induced map \Phi_J -> \Phi_E on
component groups of the N\'eron models is not surjective. This answers a
question of Ribet and Takahashi. We also give various criteria under which
\Phi_J -> \Phi_E is surjective, and discuss when these criteria hold for the
Jacobians of modular curves.

We generalize a classification result for self-shrinkers of the mean
curvature flow with nonnegative mean curvature, which was obtained by T.
Colding and W. Minicozzi, replacing the assumption on polynomial volume growth
with a weighted $L^2$ condition on the norm of the second fundamental form. Our
approach adopt the viewpoint of weighted manifolds and permits also to recover
and to extend some others recent classification and gap results for
self-shrinkers.

Given a 3-manifold M with no spherical boundary components, and a primitive
class \phi in H^1(M;Z), we show that the following are equivalent: (1) \phi is
a fibered class, (2) the rank gradient of (M,\phi) is zero, (3) the Heegaard
gradient of (M,\phi) is zero.

Recently, Bie\~{n} [A. Bie\~{n}, The problem of singularity for planar grids,
Discrete Math. 311 (2011), 921--931] obtained a recursive formula for the
determinant of a grid. Also, recently, Pragel [D. Pragel, Determinants of box
products of paths, Discrete Math. 312 (2012), 1844--1847], independently,
obtained an explicit formula for this determinant. In this paper, we give a
short proof for this problem. Furthermore, applying the same technique, we get
explicit formulas for the determinant of a torus, a cylinder, and a M\"{o}bius
ladder.

We study the blowup behavior at infinity of the normalized Kahler-Ricci flow
on a Fano manifold which does not admit Kahler-Einstein metrics. We prove an
estimate for the Kahler potential away from a multiplier ideal subscheme, which
implies that the volume forms along the flow converge to zero locally uniformly
away from the same set. Similar results are also proved for Aubin's continuity
method.

Using an algebraic Fourier transform of operators, we develop a method
(F-method) to obtain explicit highest weight vectors in the branching laws by
differential equations. This article gives a brief explanation of the F-method
and its applications to a concrete construction of some natural equivariant
operators that arise in parabolic geometry and in automorphic forms.

A graph is called Ricci-flat if its Ricci-curvatures vanish on all edges.
Here we use the definition of Ricci-cruvature on graphs given in [Lin-Lu-Yau,
Tohoku Math., 2011], which is a variation of [Ollivier, J. Funct. Math., 2009].
In this paper, we classified all Ricci-flat connected graphs with girth at
least five: they are the infinite path, cycle $C_n$ ($n\geq 6$), the
dodecahedral graph, the Petersen graph, and the half-dodecahedral graph. We
also construct many Ricci-flat graphs with girth 3 or 4 by using the root
systems of simple Lie algebras.

Binomial edge ideals IG of a graph G were introduced by [4]. They found some
classes of graphs G with the property that IG is a Cohen-Macaulay ideal. This
might happen only for few classes of graphs. A certain generalization of being
Cohen-Macaulay, named approximately Cohen-Macaulay, was introduced by S. Goto
in [3]. We study classes of graphs whose binomial edge ideal are approximately
Cohen-Macaulay. Moreover we use some homological methods in order to compute
their Hilbert series.

For any admissible pair of irreducible reduced crystallographic root systems,
we present discrete orthogonality relations for a finite-dimensional system of
Macdonald polynomials with parameters on the unit circle subject to a
truncation relation.

We investigate the master nonlinear partial differential equation that
governs the evolution of shear-free spherically symmetric charged fluids. We
use an approach which has not been considered previously for the underlying
equation in shear-free spherically symmetric spacetimes. We derive a fifth
order purely differential equation that must be satisfied for the underlying
equation to admit a Lie point symmetry. We then perform a comprehensive
analysis of this equation utilising the Lie symmetry analysis and direct
integration. This enables us to reduce the fifth order equation to quadratures.
Earlier results are shown to be contained in our general treatment.

We study bifurcation from a branch of trivial solutions of semilinear
elliptic Dirichlet boundary value problems on star-shaped domains, where the
bifurcation parameter is introduced by shrinking the domain. In the proof of
our main theorem we obtain in addition a special case of an index theorem due
to S. Smale.

We investigate the behaviour of a relativistic spherically symmetric
radiative star with an accelerating, expanding and shearing interior matter
distribution in the presence of anisotropic pressures. The junction condition
can be written in standard form in three cases: linear, Bernoulli and Riccati
equations. We can integrate the boundary condition in each case and three
classes of new solutions are generated. For particular choices of the metric we
investigate the physical properties and consider the limiting behaviour for
large values of time. The causal temperature can also be found explicitly.

Let X be a simply-connected closed oriented 4-manifold and A an embedded
surface of genus g and negative self-intersection -N. We show that for fixed
genus g there is an upper bound on N if the homology class of A is divisible or
characteristic. In particular, for genus zero, there is a lower bound on the
self-intersection of embedded spheres in these kinds of homology classes. This
question is related to a problem from the Kirby list.

Let $I\supsetneq J$ be two squarefree monomial ideals of a polynomial algebra
over a field. Suppose that $I$ is generated by one squarefree monomial of
degree $ d>0$, and other squarefree monomials of degrees $\geq d+1$. If the
Stanley depth of $I/J$ is $\leq d+1$ then almost always the usual depth of
$I/J$ is $\leq d+1$ too.

We consider two-dimensional Bose-Einstein condensates with attractive
interaction, described by the Gross-Pitaevskii functional. Minimizers of this
functional exist only if the interaction strength $a$ satisfies $a < a^*=
\|Q\|_2^2$, where $Q$ is the unique positive radial solution of $\Delta
u-u+u^3=0$ in $\R^2$. We present a detailed analysis of the behavior of
minimizers as $a$ approaches $a^*$, where all the mass concentrates at a global
minimum of the trapping potential.

In this paper we obtain a new sufficient condition for the existence of
directed cycles of length 4 in oriented bipartite graphs. As a corollary, a
conjecture of H. Li is confirmed. As an application, a sufficient condition for
the existence of rainbow cycles of length 4 in bipartite edge-colored graphs is
obtained.

We give an equivalent definition of the local volume of an isolated
singularity Vol_{BdFF}(X,0) given in [BdFF12] in the Q-Gorenstein case and we
generalize it to the non-Q-Gorenstein case. We prove that there is a positive
lower bound depending only on the dimension for the non-zero local volume of an
isolated singularity if X is Gorenstein. We also give a non-Q-Gorenstein
example with Vol_{BdFF}(X,0)=0, which does not allow a boundary \Delta such
that the pair (X,\Delta) is log canonical.

We consider strong convergence of the finite differences approximation in
space for stochastic reaction diffusion equations with multiplicative noise
under a one-sided Lipschitz condition only. We derive convergence with an
implicit rate depending on the regularity of the exact solution. This can be
made explicit if the variational solution has more than its canonical spatial
regularity. As an application, spatially extended FitzHugh-Nagumo systems with
noise are considered.

We show that the Laplace-Beltrami equation $\square_6 a =j$ in
$(\setR^6,\eta)$, $\eta := \mathrm{diag}(+----+)$, leads under very moderate
assumptions to both the Maxwell equations and the conformal Eastwood-Singer
gauge condition on conformally flat spaces including the spaces with a
Robertson-Walker metric. This result is obtained through a geometric formalism
which gives, as byproduct, simplified calculations. In particular, we build an
atlas for all the conformally flat spaces considered which allows us to fully
exploit the Weyl rescalling to Minkowski space.

In this article, we establish some new second main theorems for meromorphic
mappings of $\mathbb C^m$ into $\mathbb P^n(\mathbb C)$ and moving
hypersurfaces with truncated counting functions. A uniqueness theorem for these
mappings sharing few moving hypersurfaces without counting multiplicity is also
given. This result is an improvement of the recent result of Dethloff - Tan
[3]. Moreover the meromorphic mappings in our result may be algebraically
degenerate. The last purpose of this article is to study uniqueness problem in
the case where the meromorphic mappings agree on small identical sets.

We provide the existence, for every complex rational smooth affine curve
$\Gamma$, of a linear action of $\mathrm{Aut}(\Gamma)$ on the affine
3-dimensional space $\mathbb{A}^3$, together with a
$\mathrm{Aut}(\Gamma)$-equivariant closed embedding of $\Gamma$ into
$\mathbb{A}^3$.
  It is not possible to decrease the dimension of the target, the reason for
this obstruction is also precisely described.

In this short note, we compare our previous works on the off-diagonal
expansion of the Bergman kernel and the recent preprint of Lu-Shiffman
(arxiv.1301.2166). In particular, we note that the vanishing of the coefficient
of p^{-1/2} is implicitly contained in Dai-Liu-Ma's work (J. Differential Geom.
72 (2006), no. 1, 1-41) and was explicitly stated in our book (Holomorphic
Morse inequalities and Bergman kernels, Progress in Math., vol. 254,
Birkh\"auser, 2007).

We give an approach to exponential stability within the framework of
evolutionary equations due to [R. Picard. A structural observation for linear
material laws in classical mathematical physics. Math. Methods Appl. Sci.,
32(14):1768-1803,2009]. We derive sufficient conditions for exponential
stability in terms of the material law operator, which is defined via an
analytic and bounded operator-valued function and give an estimate for the
expected decay rate. The results are illustrated by three examples:
differential-algebraic equations, partial differential equations with finite
delay and parabolic integro-differential equations.

We present some new persistence results for the non-periodic two-component
Camassa-Holm (2CH) system in weighted $L_p$ spaces. Working with moderate
weight functions that are commonly used in time-frequency analysis, the paper
generalizes some recent persistence results for the Camassa-Holm equation [L.
Brandolese, Int. Math. Res. Notices 22 (2012) 5161-81] to its supersymmetric
extension. As an application we discuss the spatial asymptotic profile of
solutions to 2CH.

In this note, a generalization of the Thompson transfer lemma and its various
extensions, most recently due to Lyons, is proven in the context of saturated
fusion systems. A strengthening of Alperin's fusion theorem is also given in
this setting, following Alperin's own "up and down" fusion.

We consider Tate cycles on an Abelian variety $A$ defined over a sufficiently
large number field $K$ and having complex multiplication. We show that there is
an effective bound $C = C(A,K)$ so that to check whether a given cohomology
class is a Tate class on $A$, it suffices to check the action of Frobenius
elements at primes $v$ of norm $ \leq C$. We also show that for a set of primes
$v$ of $K$ of density 1, the space of Tate cycles on the special fibre $A_v$ of
the N\'eron model of $A$ is isomorphic to the space of Tate cycles on $A$
itself.

We analyze the two-mode squeezed harmonic oscillator and the $k$th-order
harmonic generation within the framework of Bargmann-Hilbert spaces of entire
functions. For the displaced, single-mode squeezed and two-mode squeezed
harmonic oscillators, we derive the exact, closed-form expressions for their
energies and wave functions. For the $k$th-order harmonic generation with
$k\geq 3$, our result indicates that it does not have eigenfunctions and is
thus ill-defined in the Bargmann-Hilbert space.

I propose a definition of left/right connection along a strong homotopy
Lie-Rinehart algebra. This allows me to generalize simultaneously
representations up to homotopy of Lie algebroids and actions of strong homotopy
Lie algebras on graded manifolds. I also discuss the Schouten-Nijenhuis
calculus associated to strong homotopy Lie-Rinehart connections.

This paper is concerned with restricted families of projections in
$\mathbb{R}^{3}$. Let $K \subset \mathbb{R}^{3}$ be a Borel set with Hausdorff
dimension $\dim K = s > 1$. If $\mathcal{G}$ is a smooth and sufficiently
well-curved one-dimensional family of two-dimensional subspaces, the main
result states that there exists $\sigma(s) > 1$ such that $\dim \pi_{V}(K) \geq
\sigma(s)$ for almost all $V \in \mathcal{G}$. A similar result is obtained for
some specific families of one-dimensional subspaces.

We show that supersingular K3 surfaces in characteristic $p\geq5$ are related
sequences of very special correspondences. This is not enough to conclude that
they are unirational. As a byproduct, we exhibit a fibration structure on the
moduli space of rigidified K3 crystals. We also establish Shioda-Inose type
isogeny theorems for K3 surfaces with Picard rank $\rho\geq19$ in positive
characteristic.

In this note we show that the members of a certain class of local similarity
groups are l2-invisible, i.e. the non-reduced group homology of the regular
unitary representation vanishes in all degrees. This class contains for example
Thompson's group V and Nekrashevych-R\"over groups. They yield counterexamples
to a generalized zero-in-the-spectrum conjecture for groups that admit a
classifying space with finitely many cells in each dimension.

Considering a singularly perturbed convection-diffusion problem, we present
an analysis for a superconvergence result using pointwise interpolation of
Gau{\ss}-Lobatto type for higher-order streamline diffusion FEM.
  We show a useful connection between two different types of interpolation,
namely a vertex-edge-cell interpolant and a pointwise interpolant. Moreover,
different postprocessing operators are analysed and applied to model problems.

We investigate the deformation of involution and multiplication in a unital
$C^*$-algebra when its norm is fixed. Our main result is to present all
multiplications and involutions on a given $C^*$-algebra $\mathcal{A}$ under
which $\mathcal{A}$ is still a $C^*$-algebra whereas we keep the norm
unchanged. For each invertible element $a\in\mathcal{A}$ we also introduce an
involution and a multiplication making $\mathcal{A}$ into a $C^*$-algebra in
which $a$ becomes a positive element. Further, we give a necessary and
sufficient condition for that the center of a unital $C^*$-algebra
$\mathcal{A}$ is trivial.

For a scattering problem of tight-binding Bloch electrons by a weak random
surface potential, a generalized Levinson theorem is put forward showing the
equality of the total density of surface states and the density of the total
time delay. The proof uses explicit formulas for the wave operators in the new
rescaled energy and interaction (REI) representation, as well as an index
theorem for adequate associated operator algebras.

Let $(X,B)$ be a projective log canonical pair such that $B$ is a
$\Q$-divisor, and that there is a surjective morphism $f\colon X\to Z$ onto a
normal variety $Z$ satisfying: $K_X+B\sim_\Q f^*M$ for some $\Q$-divisor $M$,
and the augmented base locus ${\bf{B_+}}(M)$ does not contain the image of any
log canonical centre of $(X,B)$. We will show that $(X,B)$ has a good log
minimal model. An interesting special case is when $f$ is the identity
morphism.

In this paper, we study Banach contractions in uniform spaces endowed with a
graph and give some sufficient conditions for a mapping to be a Picard
operator. Our main results generalize some results of [J. Jachymski, "The
contraction principle for mappings on a metric space with a graph", Proc. Amer.
Math. Soc. 136 (2008) 1359-1373] employing the basic entourages of the uniform
space.

We prove fractional order Hardy inequalities on open sets under a combined
fatness and visibility condition on the boundary. We demonstrate by
counterexamples that fatness conditions alone are not sufficient for such Hardy
inequalities to hold. In addition, we give a short exposition of various
fatness conditions related to our main result, and apply fractional Hardy
inequalities in connection to the boundedness of extension operators for
fractional Sobolev spaces.

The domain of validity of the higher-order Schrodinger equations is analyzed
for harmonic-oscillator and Coulomb potentials as typical examples. Then the
Cauchy theory for higher-order Hartree-Fock equations with bounded and Coulomb
potentials is developed. Finally, the existence of associated ground states for
the odd-order equations is proved. This renders these quantum equations
relevant for physics.

The main goal of the project Math-Net.Ru is to collect scientific
publications in Russian and Soviet mathematics journals since their foundation
to today and the authors of these publications into a single database and to
provide access to full-text articles for broad international mathematical
community. Leading Russian mathematics journals have been comprehensively
digitized dating back to the first volumes.

In this paper, we explain the regularity, projective dimension and depth of
edge ideal of some classes of graphs in terms of invariants of graphs. We show
that for a $C_5$-free vertex decomposable graph $G$, $\T{reg}(R/I(G))= c_G$,
where $c_G$ is the maximum number of 3-disjoint edges in $G$. Moreover for this
class of graphs we characterize $\T{pd}(R/I(G))$ and $\T{depth}(R/I(G))$. As a
corollary we describe these invariants in forests and sequentially
Cohen-Macaulay bipartite graphs.

We consider the canonical ensemble of $N$ particles admitting a strange
Hamiltonian description. Each of the particles obeys a set of Newtonian
equation of motion, which can also be described by the standard canonical
Hamiltonian mechanics. However, the thermodynamics corresponding to the strange
description and canonical description differ drastically from each other. In
other words, the strange description and the standard canonical description are
inequivalent on the level of thermodynamics.

A locally conformally K\"ahler (LCK) manifold is a manifold which is covered
by a K\"ahler manifold, with the deck transform group acting by homotheties. We
show that the search for LCK metrics on Oeljeklaus-Toma manifolds leads to a
(yet another) variation on Kronecker's theorem on units. In turn, this implies
that on Oeljeklaus-Toma manifold associated to number fields with $2t$ complex
embeddings and $s$ real embeddings with $s<t$ there is no LCK metric.

The purpose of this note is to correct an error in an earlier paper by the
author about the level sets of the Takagi function [Monatsh. Math. 167 (2012),
311-331 and arXiv:1102.1616], and to prove a stronger form of one of the main
results of that paper about the propensity of level sets containing uncountably
many local level sets.

The purpose of this paper is to establish a Nadel vanishing theorem for big
line bundles with multiplier ideal sheaves of singular metrics admitting an
analytic Zariski decomposition (such as, metrics with minimal singularities and
Siu's metrics). For this purpose, we apply the theory of harmonic integrals and
generalize Enoki's proof of Koll'ar's injectivity theorem. Moreover we
investigate the asymptotic behavior of harmonic forms with respect to a family
of regularized metrics.

We prove for the square Fibonacci Hamiltonian that the density of states
measure is absolutely continuous for almost all pairs of small coupling
constants. This is obtained from a new result we establish about the absolute
continuity of convolutions of measures arising in hyperbolic dynamics with
exact-dimensional measures.

We construct a new discrete analog of the Dirac-K\"{a}hler equation in which
some key geometric aspects of the continuum counterpart are captured. We
describe a discrete Dirac-K\"{a}hler equation in the intrinsic notation as a
set of difference equations and prove several statements about its
decomposition into difference equations of Duffin type. We study an analog of
gauge transformations for the massless discrete Dirac-K\"{a}hler equations.

This paper describes the notion of \sigma -symmetry, which extends the one of
\lambda-symmetry, and its application to reduction procedures of systems of
ordinary differential equations and of dynamical systems as well. We also
consider orbital symmetries, which give rise to a different form of reduction
of dynamical systems. Finally, we discuss how dynamical systems can be
transformed into higher-order ordinary differential equations, and how these
symmetry properties of the dynamical systems can be transferred into reduction
properties of the corresponding ordinary differential equations. Many examples
illustrate the various situations.

Assume A is a Frechet algebra equipped with a smooth isometric action of a
vector group V, and consider Rieffel's deformation A_J of A. We construct an
explicit isomorphism between the smooth crossed products V\ltimes\A_J and
V\ltimes\A. When combined with the Elliott-Natsume-Nest isomorphism, this
immediately implies that the periodic cyclic cohomology is invariant under
deformation. Specializing to the case of smooth subalgebras of C*-algebras, we
also get a simple proof of equivalence of Rieffel's and Kasprzak's approaches
to deformation.

The classical quantization of a Lienard-type nonlinear oscillator is achieved
by a quantization scheme (M.C. Nucci. Theor. Math. Phys., 168:997--1004, 2011)
that preserves the Noether point symmetries of the underlying Lagrangian in
order to construct the Schr\"odinger equation. This method straightforwardly
yields the correct Schr\"odinger equation in the momentum space (V. Chithiika
Ruby, M. Senthilvelan, and M. Lakshmanan. J. Phys. A: Math. Gen., 45:382002,
2012), and sheds light into the apparently remarkable connection with the
linear harmonic oscillator.

We propose the notion of Hopf module algebras and show that the projection
onto the subspace of coinvariants is an idempotent Rota-Baxter operator of
weight -1. We also provide a construction of Hopf module algebras by using
Yetter-Drinfeld module algebras. As an application, we prove that the positive
part of a quantum group admits idempotent Rota-Baxter algebra structures.

We show that the linear symplectic and anti-symplectic transformations form
the maximal covariance group for both the Wigner transform and Weyl operators.
The proof is based on a new result from symplectic geometry which characterizes
symplectic and anti-symplectic matrices, and which allows us, in addition, to
refine a classical result on the preservation of symplectic capacities of
ellipsoids.

Let $I\supsetneq J$ be two squarefree monomial ideals of a polynomial algebra
over a field generated in degree $\geq d$, resp. $\geq d+1$ . Suppose that $I$
is generated by three monomials of degrees $d$. If the Stanley depth of $I/J$
is $\leq d+1$ then the usual depth of $I/J$ is $\leq d+1$ too.

l-Conformal Galilei algebra, denoted by g{l}{d}, is a non-semisimple Lie
algebra specified by a pair of parameters (d,l). The algebra is regarded as a
nonrelativistic analogue of the conformal algebra. We derive hierarchies of
partial differential equations which have invariance of the group generated by
g{l}{d} with central extension as kinematical symmetry. This is done by
developing a representation theory such as Verma modules, singular vectors of
g{l}{d} and vector field representations for d = 1, 2.

Let $F$ be a totally real field in which $p$ is unramified. We study the
Goren-Oort stratification of the special fibers of quaternionic Shimura
varieties over a place above $p$. We show that each stratum is a
$(\mathbb{P}^1)^N$-bundle over other quaternionic Shimura varieties (for some
appropriate $N$).

The method introduced in (Yehia H M 2006 J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 5807-5824)
and (Yehia H M 2012 J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 45 395209) is extended to construct
new families of several-parameter integrable systems, which admit a
complementary integral quartic in the velocities. A total of 12 new systems are
obtained, with a number of parameters ranging from 7 up to 16 parameters.

The subgroup K=GL_p x GL_q of GL_{p+q} acts on the (complex) flag variety
GL_{p+q}/B with finitely many orbits. We introduce a family of polynomials that
specializes to representatives for cohomology classes of the orbit closures in
the Borel model. We define and study K-orbit determinantal ideals to support
the geometric naturality of these representatives. Using a modification of
these ideals, we describe an analogy between two local singularity measures:
the H-polynomials and the Kazhdan-Lusztig-Vogan polynomials.

We construct some examples of origamis (square-tiled surfaces) such that the
Hodge bundles over the corresponding SL(2,R)-orbits on the moduli space admit
non-trivial isotropic SL(2,R)-invariant subbundles. This answers a question
posed to the authors by A. Eskin and G. Forni.

Let G be a real semi-simple Lie group and H a closed subgroup which admits an
open orbit on the flag manifold of a minimal parabolic subgroup. Let V be a
Harish-Chandra module. A sharp finite bound is given for the dimension of the
space of H-fixed distribution vectors for V and a related subrepresentation
theorem is derived. Extended final version. To appear in Trans. Amer. Math.
Soc.

We consider a general class of two-dimensional spin systems, with continuous
but not necessarily smooth, possibly long-range, $O(N)$-symmetric interactions,
for which we establish algebraically decaying upper bounds on spin-spin
correlations under all infinite-volume Gibbs measures.
  As a by-product, we also obtain estimates on the effective resistance of a
(possibly long-range) resistor network in which randomly selected edges are
shorted.

We address questions posed by Lorenzini about relations between Jacobians,
Tutte polynomials, and the Brill-Noether theory of finite graphs, as encoded in
his two-variable zeta functions. In particular, we give examples showing that
none of these invariants is determined by the other two.

This note surveys basic topological properties of nonarchimedean analytic
spaces, in the sense of Berkovich, including the recent tameness results of
Hrushovski and Loeser. We also discuss interactions between the topology of
nonarchimedean analytic spaces and classical algebraic geometry.

Let G=ASL(2,R) be the affine special linear group of the plane, and set
Gamma=ASL(2,Z). We prove a polynomially effective asymptotic equidistribution
result for the orbits of a 1-dimensional, non-horospherical unipotent flow on
Gamma\G.

