In this paper, it is argued that theoretical physics is more akin to an
organism than to a rigid structure.It is in this sense that the epithet,
"sick", applies to it. It is argued that classical physics is a model of a
healthy science, and the degree of sickness of modern physics is measured
accordingly. The malady is located in the relationship between mathematics and
physical meaning in physical theory.

Personal view of author on goals and content of Mathematical Physics.

The phenomenon of quantum number fractionalization is explained. The
relevance of non-trivial phonon field topology is emphasized.

The frontiers of physics related e-print archives (1994-2002) at
http://www.arxiv.org/archives/physics web service are explored from 7770
submissions. No. of e-prints in the six research disciplines besides physics
(5390) were: Condensed matter(754), Quantum physics(279), Astrophysics(222),
Chemical physics(129), High energy physics Phenomenology(118), and High energy
physics-Theory(100)). By keyword contents following major sub-fields have high
frequency: Atomic physics(1258), General physics(1121), Chemical physics(892),
Accelerator physics(769), Optics(686), Biological physics(674), and
Computational physics(607). Interdomainary co-word cluster analysis revealed
higher e-print contents for: Classical physics-General physics(108), Quantum
physics-Optics(53), and High energy physics (Phenomenology)Atomic physics(49).
Prominent contributors were B. G. Sidharth (India), V. V. Flambaum (Australia),
Antonina N. Fedorova (Russia), and Michael G. Zeitlin (Russia).

In this paper, we argue that there are foundational dilemmas in theoretical
physics related to the concept of reality and the nature of mathematics in
physics. Physical theory is treated as a conceptual organism which develops
under the weight of its internal contradictions. The paper discusses in depth
the problem of objective reality in physics and its relation to scientific
practice. Then, it explores the problematic relation between physical meaning
and mathematics in modern physical theory, followed by a discussion of the
trend of contemporary physics to replace physical principles with pure
mathematical principles. Finally, it discusses the problem of logical coherence
in modern physical theory. The paper emphasizes the importance of resolving
these dilemmas to the proper practice of theoretical physics.

Selected problems in heavy quark physics are discussed. The wealth of
research problems in this field of physics is stressed.

Prospects on electroweak physics at a future International Linear Collider
(ILC) are summarized, including gauge coupling measurements, top quark physics
and Higgs physics.

To appear in Encyclopedia of Mathematical Physics, published by Elsevier in
early 2006. Comments/corrections welcome. The article surveys topological
aspects in gauge theories.

A brief review of some selected topics in p-adic mathematical physics is
presented.

This is a short review of the heritage of Klein's Erlangen program in modern
physics.

Talk at the KITP Conference: Snowmass Theory Frontier - Feb. 23, 2022

A brief exposition of the point of higher topos theory in (mathematical)
physics, commissioned for the Encyclopedia of Mathematical Physics 2nd ed.

We discuss the status and some perspectives of relativistic quantum physics.

It is shown that physical fields are formed by physical structures, which in
their properties are differential-geometrical structures.
  These results have been obtained due to using the mathematical apparatus of
skew-symmetric differential forms.
  This apparatus discloses the controlling role of the conservation laws in
evolutionary processes, which proceed in material media and lead to origination
of physical structures and forming physical fields and manifolds.

The slogan information is physical has been so successful that it led to some
excess. Classical and quantum information can be thought of independently of
any physical implementation. Pure information tasks can be realized using such
abstract c- and qu-bits, but physical tasks require appropriate physical
realizations of c- or qu-bits. As illustration we consider the problem of
communicating chirality.

In past few years the flavor physics made important transition from the work
on confirmation the standard model of particle physics to the phase of search
for effects of a new physics beyond standard model. In this paper we review
current state of the physics of b-hadrons with emphasis on results with a
sensitivity to new physics.

Classical physics fails where quantum physics prevails. This common
understanding applies to quantum phenomena that are acknowledged to be beyond
the reach of classical physics. Here, we make an attempt at weakening this
solid belief that classical physics is unfit to explain the quantum world. The
trial run is the quantization of the free radiation field that will be
addressed by following a strategy that is free from operators or
quantum-mechanical concepts

An old branch of mathematics, Topology, has opened the road to the discovery
of new phases of matter. A hidden topology in the energy spectrum is the key
for novel conducting/insulating properties of topological matter.

Physics Education Research frequently investigates what students studying
physics do on small time scales (e.g. single courses, observations within
single courses), or post-education time scales (e.g., what jobs do physics
majors get?) but there is little research into how students get from the
beginning to the end of a physics degree. Our work attempts to visualize
students paths through the physics major, and quantitatively describe the
students who take physics courses, receive physics degrees, and change degree
paths into and out of the physics program at Michigan State University.

We discuss a nexus among quantum topology, quantum physics and quantum
computing.

Summary Talk: International Conference of Flavor Physics (ICFP 2001).
Zhang-Jia-Jie. Hunan, China (May / June 2001)

Talk given at the 6th Philosophy-and-Physics-Workshop ``Epistemological
Aspects of the Role of Mathematics in Physical Science'', FEST, Heidelberg,
Feb. 1993

Short survey to be published at the Encyclopedia of Mathematical Physics.

This is a brief review article of various applications of non-Archimedean
geometry, p-adic numbers and adeles in modern mathematical physics.

The differential geometric aspects of Geometric Phases are reviewed.

In memoria of Vladimir Naumovich Gribov

We discuss the physical nature of quantum information, in particular
focussing on tasks that are achievable by some physical realizations of qubits
but not by others.

The role of topology in QIS with physical connection to the noncommutativity,
discretization,supersymmetry, entanglement, nonseparability and CP violation in
physics is discussed.

In this short report, we discuss the Jet Physics results and perspectives at
HERA, Tevatron and LHC.

This essay is a discussion of Heinz von Foerster's concept of eigenform and
its relationship with the foundations of physics.

A digest of my opening remarks at the 2011 Hadron Collider Physics Symposium.

I describe some of the highlights of ICHEP2012 with an eye to the current
status of particle physics.

This is a critical discussion of physical relevance of some space-time
characteristics which are in current use in high energy physics.

It is shown that higgsplosion scenario is impossible within local QFT
framework.

This article summarizes strategies and resources for teaching physics courses
online on short notice.

This contribution highlights challenges afflicting physics education in
Africa and provides a reflection on key areas for intervention to strengthen
capacity building.

An overview of the theory of B physics is given, with an emphasis on issues
in the strong interactions and hadronic physics. This article is taken from an
introductory chapter of The BaBar Physics Book - Physics at an Asymmetric B
Factory, SLAC Report SLAC-R-504. It is written at the level of a basic survey
aimed at the experimental community.

Recent developments of physics at the TeV energy scale, especially physics
related to the electron-positron linear colliders are briefly reviewed. The
topics include the present status of the standard model, Higgs physics,
supersymmetry, strongly interacting electroweak symmetry breaking mechanism,
and top quark physics.

The inevitability of Chern--Simons terms in constructing a variety of
physical models, and the mathematical advances they in turn generate,
illustrates the unexpected but profound interactions between the two
disciplines.

We review the color charge degree of freedom in particle physics.

A physical subspace and physical Hilbert space associated with asymptotic
fields of nonrelativistic quantum electrodynamics are constructed through the
Gupta-Bleuler procedure. Asymptotic completeness is shown and a physical
Hamiltonian is defined on the physical Hilbert space.

I review some recent progress, open puzzles and future opportunities in heavy
quarkonium physics in the framework of effective field theories

We present the status and performance of the physics objects with data
corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 12.9 inverse fb collected at 13
TeV by the CMS experiment. We cover the performance of the physics objects
extensively used in physics analyses involving top quarks.

In the 10^th International Workshop on the CKM Unitarity Triangle, the
sessions of the High-p T flavor physics were devoted to the related topics in
top quark physics, Higgs physics, semileptonic decays of B mesons and
leptoquark searches. This notes summarizes the highlights of discussions on top
quark and Higgs physics.

The marriage of machine learning and quantum physics may give birth to a new
research frontier that could transform both.

Differential forms provide a coordinate-free way to express many quantities
and relations in mathematical physics. In particular, they are useful in plasma
physics. This tutorial gives a guide so that you can read the plasma physics
literature that uses them and apply them yourself.

Physics is formulated in terms of timeless classical mathematics. A
formulation on the basis of intuitionist mathematics, built on time-evolving
processes, would offer a perspective that is closer to our experience of
physical reality.

Crucial experiments have a long history of contributions to progress in
physics. Similarly, we claim that in the period roughly from 1955 to 1985
crucial calculations played a significant role in setting the agenda for
elementary particle physics. The highlights of the contributions of theoretical
physics to the achievement of the standard model is emphasized

We study signatures of physical constraints on free rotations of rigid
bodies. We show analytically that the physical or non-physical nature of the
moments of inertia of a system can be detected by qualitative changes both in
the Montgomery Phase and in the Tennis Racket Effect.

This survey article is an invited contribution to the Encyclopedia of
Mathematical Physics, 2nd edition. We provide an accessible overview on
relevant applications of higher and derived geometry to theoretical physics,
including higher gauge theory, higher geometric quantization and
Batalin-Vilkovisky formalism.

The mathematical representation of the physical objects determines which
mathematical branch will be applied during the physical analysis in the systems
studied. The difference among non-quantum physics, like classic or relativistic
physics, and quantum physics, especially in quantum field theory, is nothing
else than the difference between the mathematics that is used on both branches
of the physics. A common physical and mathematical origin for the analysis of
the different systems brings both forms (quantum and classic) of understanding
the nature mechanisms closer to each other.

The CERN-Latin-American School of High-Energy Physics is intended to give
young physicists an introduction to the theoretical aspects of recent advances
in elementary particle physics. These proceedings contain lectures on quantum
field theory, quantum chromodynamics, physics beyond the Standard Model,
neutrino physics, flavour physics and CP violation, particle cosmology,
high-energy astro-particle physics, and heavy-ion physics, as well as trigger
and data acquisition, and commissioning and early physics analysis of the ATLAS
and CMS experiments. Also included are write-ups of short review projects
performed by the student discussions groups.

Diversity has an important, multifaceted role in the success of education. I
have used a corpus analysis of the first ten years of Physical Review Physics
Education Research to investigate the diversity, broadly defined, of physics
education research. The results show that the physics education research
community has extensively investigated the diversity of physics students,
especially with respect to gender. However, some less visible but still
numerous groups of students are little studied. On the whole, the contents of
Physical Review Physics Education Research reveals a robust research community
in physics education, but there is room for growth with respect to working with
different kinds of students and the interactions between student attributes and
teaching methods.

Quantum spinor matter in extremal conditions (high densities and
temperatures, presence of strong magnetic fields) have drawn the attention of
researchers in diverse areas of contemporary physics, ranging from cosmology,
high-energy and astroparticle physics to condensed matter physics. We study an
impact of the confining boundary conditions on the properties of physical
systems with hot dense magnetized ultrarelativistic spinor matter and elucidate
a significant role of boundaries for such systems.

We present our initial work to develop an assessment of calculus proficiency
in the context of introductory physics (i.e., calculus transfer to physics),
including a comparison of calculus transfer ability with physics self-efficacy
and how these attributes intersect with student gender. Although students
demonstrated an improvement in their calculus transfer ability, most
nevertheless displayed a decrease in their physics self-efficacy. Similarly,
while women consistently exhibited lower physics self-efficacy than men, women
demonstrated larger gains in their proficiency with calculus transfer to
physics. We also discuss future work to better evaluate the interdependence of
mathematics self-efficacy, physics self-efficacy, and ability to transfer
calculus to physics.

This article describes an undergraduate physics module at a university in
England that places year 3 student physicists in secondary school classrooms
for a semester. This is done as a way of introducing them to the occupation of
secondary physics teaching using a realistic job preview approach. The module
helps the undergraduate students develop their communication and professional
skills and supports the physics learning of pupils in the schools where they
are placed. The perceptions of the participating students toward secondary
school physics teaching are then investigated. Two themes emerged from this
research: The difficulty of explaining physics concepts to children and the
need to make school physics enjoyable.

The physics potential of the forward physics project at CMS is very rich.
Some of the diffraction and low-x physics channels are briefly discussed.

Flavor Physics at LHC will contribute significantly to the search for New
Physics via precise and complementary measurements of CKM angles and the study
of loop decays. Here we present the expected experimental sensitivity and
physics performance of the LHC experiments that will to B-physics.

Introduction to the Lecture Note Volume "ITEP Lectures in Particle Physics",
including 25 years of personal reminiscences.

We discuss some aspects of forward jet production as a signature for small
$x$ physics at THERA energies.

Dirac's quantization of magnetic monopole strength is derived without
reference to a (singular, patched) vector potential.

A very elementary introduction to quantum algebras is presented and a few
examples of their physical applications are mentioned.

This article summarises a Web-book on "Complexity" that was developed to
introduce undergraduate students to interesting complex systems in the
biological, physical and social sciences, and the common tools, principles and
concepts used for their study.

The standard definition of the Poisson brackets is generalized to the
non-equal-time Poisson brackets. Their relationship to the equal-time Poisson
brackets, as well as to the equal- and non-equal-time commutators, is
discussed.

This colloquium summarizes Dirac's contributions to the discovery of quantum
mechanics before he invented his relativistic wave equation.

A rule to assign a physical meaning to Lagrange multipliers is discussed.
Examples from mechanics, statistical mechanics and quantum mechanics are given.

Application of adeles in modern mathematical physics is briefly reviewed. In
particular, some adelic products are presented.

In this article, inspired by Lawrence Krauss' plenary talk at the 2007 CAP
congress, the relation between faith and science is examined.

This comment was solicited by Physics in Canada and will appear alongside the
article by Richard Mackenzie [arXiv:0807.3670] in the next issue.

Recent results from the H1 and ZEUS experiments are reported on electroweak
physics and on searches for new physics. All results are in good agreement with
the Standard Model.

Lectures content: (1) Flavour physics within the SM and the flavour problem;
(2) B-physics phenomenology: mixing, CP violation, and rare decays; (3) Flavour
physics beyond the SM: models and predictions.

We discuss the motivation for pursuing research on the foundations of quantum
theory.

This article gives a conceptual introduction to the topos approach to the
formulation of physical theories.

A brief account of some recent controversies about the teaching and learning
of physics is presented. A shorter version of this outcome was accepted by The
Physics Teacher, but publication is still pending.

I discuss topics in Particle Physics applying the novel ontological
formulation of Relativistic Quantum Field Theory due to David Bohm. I argument
that particle physicists might too benefit from this truly novel way of
thinking Physics.

A possibility to constrain axion-like particles from precision atomic physics
is considered.

This paper describes the history of experimental neutrino physics in the
physics department of Rome Sapienza University

A recent high school graduate addresses the salient question: Should
individualism or collectivism be encouraged in physics students? (Physics
Today, Points of View, October 2013)

We report here about activities of newly formed working group aiming to
define a forward and diffractive physics program at the LHC for the years to
come.

Current thinking on the interpretation of quantum physics is reviewed, with
special detail given to the Copenhagen and Everett many-worlds interpretations.

The purpose of these lectures is to describe the state of affairs in modern
particle physics to young physicists who do not specialize in this subject.

I review highlights of recent results in quark-flavor physics and heavy-quark
spectroscopy from lattice QCD, with emphasis on $B$-meson decays and excited
and exotic charmonium states.

We give an outline of the anticipated physics program for a future electron
ion collider. The status and prospects for construction of such a device are
discussed.

A summary of the prospects for top-quark physics at the High Luminosity LHC.

Lectures at the 53rd Winter School of Petersburg Nuclear Physics Institute
and European School on High Energy Physics ESHEP2019, Saint-Petersburg, Russia.

This article summarizes why physics instructors should use social
psychological interventions to make physics classes equitable and inclusive.

I provide the backstory on how a historical error in the Feynman Lectures on
Physics was corrected.

This is an experimentalist's list of questions concerning the physics of the
charmed baryon sector which have no satisfactory answer.

Using von Neumann algebras, we extend the theory of quantum computation on a
graph to a theory of computation on an arbitrary topological space.

Defining interdisciplinary physics today requires first a reformulation of
what is physics today, which in turn calls for clarifying what makes a
physicist. This assessment results from my forty year journey arguing and
fighting to build sociophysics. My view on interdisciplinary physics has thus
evolved jumping repeatedly to opposite directions before settling down to the
following claim: today physics is what is done by physicists who handle a
problem the "physicist's way". However the training of physicists should stay
restricted to inert matter. Yet adding a focus on the universality of the
physicist approach as a generic path to investigate a topic. Consequently,
interdisciplinary physics should become a cabinet of curiosities including an
incubator. The cabinet of curiosities would welcome all one shots papers
related to any kind of object provided it is co-authored at least by one
physicist. Otherwise the paper should uses explicitly technics from physics. In
case a topic gets many papers, it would be moved to the incubator to foster the
potential emergence of a new appropriate subfield of physics. A process
illustrated by the subsection social physics in Frontiers in physics.

Hadron physics is that part of QCD dealing with hadron structure and vacuum
structure, almost all of which is nonperturbative in nature. Some of the open
problems in this field are outlined. We argue that hadron physics is a distinct
subfield, no longer within particle physics, and not at all the same as
classical nuclear physics. We believe that it needs to be better organized, and
that a first step in doing so might be to establish hadron physics as a new
division within the American Physical Society.

With the running B, kaon and neutrino physics experiments, flavour physics
takes centre stage within today's particle physics. We discuss the
opportunities offered by these experiments in our search for new physics beyond
the SM and discuss their complementarity to collider physics.
  We focus on rare B and kaon decays, highlighting specific observables in an
exemplary mode. We also comment on the so-called B --> pi pi and B --> K pi
puzzles. Moreover, we briefly discuss the restrictive role of long-distance
strong interactions and some new tools such as QCD factorization and SCET to
handle them.

We start by remarks on the scientific and societal context of today's
theoretical physics. Major classes of models for physics to be explored at the
LHC are then reviewed. This leads us to propose an LHC timeline and a list of
potential effects on theoretical physics and the society. We then explore three
conceptual questions connected with the LHC physics: symmetry (and symmetry
breaking), effective field theory, and fine tuning.

A concise survey of the contribution of D.I. Blokhintsev to the quantum
physics, including solid state physics, physics of metals, surface physics,
statistical physics and optics is given. These achievements have been
considered in the context of modern development of these fields of physics.

There is no doubt that the field of Fundamental Constants in Physics and
Their Time Variation is one of the hottest subjects in modern theoretical and
experimental physics, with potential implications in all fundamental areas of
physics research, such as particle physics, gravitation, astrophysics and
cosmology. In this Special Issue, the state-of-the-art in the field is
presented in detail.

The European School of High-Energy Physics is intended to give young
physicists an introduction to the theoretical aspects of recent advances in
elementary particle physics. These proceedings contain lecture notes on quantum
field theory and the Standard Model, quantum chromodynamics, flavour physics,
neutrino physics, physics beyond the Standard Model, cosmology, heavy ion
physics, statistical data analysis, as well as an account for the physics
results with the data accumulated during the first run of the LHC.

The Asia-Europe-Pacific School of High-Energy Physics is intended to give
young physicists an introduction to the theoretical aspects of recent advances
in elementary particle physics. These proceedings contain lecture notes on
quantum field theory and the electroweak Standard Model, the theory of quantum
chromodynamics, flavour physics and CP violation, neutrino physics, heavy-ion
physics, cosmology and a brief introduction to the principles of
instrumentation and detectors for particle physics.

Symmetry lies at the heart of todays theoretical study of particle physics.
Our manuscript is a tutorial introducing foundational mathematics for
understanding physical symmetries. We start from basic group theory and
representation theory. We then introduce Lie Groups and Lie Algebra and their
properties. We next discuss with detail two important Lie Groups in physics
Special Unitary and Lorentz Group, with an emphasis on their applications to
particle physics. Finally, we introduce field theory and its version of the
Noether Theorem. We believe that the materials cover here will prepare
undergraduates for future studies in mathematical physics.

This paper explores the Invariant Subspace Problem in operator theory and
functional analysis, examining its applications in various branches of
mathematics and physics. The problem addresses the existence of invariant
subspaces for bounded linear operators on a Hilbert space. We extensively
explore the significance of understanding the behavior of linear operators and
the existence of invariant subspaces, as well as their profound connections to
spectral theory, operator algebras, quantum mechanics, dynamical systems and
accelerator physics . By thoroughly exploring these applications, we aim to
highlight the wide-ranging impact and relevance of the invariant subspace
problem in mathematics and physics.

We introduce HepLean, an open-source project to digitalise definitions,
theorems, proofs, and calculations in high energy physics using the interactive
theorem prover Lean 4. HepLean has the potential to benefit the high energy
physics community in four ways: making it easier to find existing results,
allowing the creation of new results using artificial intelligence and
automated methods, allowing easy review of papers for mathematical correctness,
and providing new ways to teach high energy physics. We will discuss these in
detail. We will also demonstrate the digitalisation of three areas of high
energy physics in HepLean: Cabibbo-Kobayashi-Maskawa matrices in flavour
physics, local anomaly cancellation, and Higgs physics.

This is a written version of a series of lectures aimed at graduate students
and postdoctoral fellows in particle theory/string theory/particle experiment
familiar with the basics of the Standard Model. We begin with an overview of
flavor physics and its implications for new physics. We emphasize the "new
physics flavor puzzle". Then, we give four specific examples of flavor
measurements and the lessons that have been (or can be) drawn from them: (i)
Charm physics: lessons for supersymmetry from the upper bound on $\Delta m_D$.
(ii) Bottom physics: model independent lessons on the KM mechanism and on new
physics in neutral B mixing from $S_{\psi K_S}$. (iii) Top physics and beyond:
testing minimal flavor violation at the LHC. (iv) Neutrino physics:
interpreting the data on neutrino masses and mixing within flavor models.

The physics that is traditionally formulated in one--time-physics
(1T-physics) can also be formulated in two-time-physics (2T-physics). The
physical phenomena in 1T or 2T physics are not different, but the spacetime
formalism used to describe them is. The 2T description involves two extra
dimensions (one time and one space), is more symmetric, and makes manifest many
hidden features of 1T-physics. One such hidden feature is that families of
apparently different 1T-dynamical systems in d dimensions holographically
describe the same 2T system in d+2 dimensions. In 2T-physics there are two
timelike dimensions, but there is also a crucial gauge symmetry that thins out
spacetime, thus making 2T-physics effectively equivalent to 1T-physics. The
gauge symmetry is also responsible for ensuring causality and unitarity in a
spacetime with two timelike dimensions. What is gained through 2T-physics is a
unification of diverse 1T dynamics by making manifest hidden symmetries and
relationships among them. Such symmetries and relationships is the evidence for
the presence of the underlying higher dimensional spacetime structure.
2T-physics could be viewed as a device for gaining a better understanding of
1T-physics, but beyond this, 2T-physics offers new vistas in the search of the
unified theory while raising deep questions about the meaning of spacetime. In
these lectures, the recent developments in the powerful gauge field theory
formulation of 2T-physics will be described after a brief review of the results
obtained so far in the more intuitive worldline approach.

Analysis of institutional data for physics majors showing predictive
relationships between required mathematics and physics courses in various years
is important for contemplating how the courses build on each other and whether
there is need to make changes to the curriculum for the majors to strengthen
these relationships. We use 15 years of institutional data at a large research
university to investigate how introductory physics and mathematics courses
predict male and female physics majors' performance on required advanced
physics and mathematics courses. We used Structure Equation Modeling (SEM) to
investigate these predictive relationships and find that among introductory and
advanced physics and mathematics courses, there are gender differences in
performance in favor of male students only in the introductory physics courses
after controlling for high school GPA. We found that a measurement invariance
fully holds in a multi-group SEM by gender, so it was possible to carry out
analysis with gender mediated by introductory physics and high school GPA.
Moreover, we find that these introductory physics courses that have gender
differences do not predict performance in advanced physics courses. Also,
introductory mathematics courses predict performance in advanced mathematics
courses which in turn predict performance in advanced physics courses.
Furthermore, apart from the introductory physics courses that do not predict
performance in future physics courses, there is a strong predictive
relationship between the sophomore, junior and senior level physics courses.

Studies on physics identity have shown that it is one of the main factors
that can predict a person's persistence in the field; therefore, studying
physics identity is critical to increase diversity within the field of physics
and to understand what changes can allow more women and minorities to identify
with the field. In this study, we investigate informal physics programs as
spaces for physics identity exploration. These programs provide unique
conditions under which to study physics identity development along with other
identities. Informal physics spaces allow for voluntary engagement, as well as
elements of agency and autonomy within the exploration of physics. Thus these
spaces allow an identity to form outside of the constraints traditionally found
in academic settings. In this work, we operationalized the Community of
Practice (CoP) framework to study the development of physics identities within
university students who facilitate informal physics programs. We present the
stories from two physics graduate students out of our sample to provide a
context for testing the feasibility of the extended framework and to identify
how experiences within an informal physics program can shape physics identity
development. This paper presents the operationalized constructs within the
Community of Practice framework, how these constructs are applied to the
narrated experiences of our participants, and highlights how we can use this
framework to understand the nuances of physics identity development as well as
the factors that can influence that development.

Nonperturbative, oscillatory, winding number one solutions of the Sine-Gordon
equation are presented and studied numerically. We call these nonperturbative
shape modes {\sl wobble} solitons. Perturbed Sine-Gordon kinks are found to
decay to {\sl wobble} solitons.

The new proposed experiment CLEO-c in the Wilson Laboratory will explore the
physics potential of the CLEO detector and the CESR storage ring operation in
the center-of-mass energy range 3 - 5 GeV. The Physics program of CLEO-c can be
divided in two parts: weak interaction physics and QCD physics. The electroweak
program presented at the XXXVIIth Rencontres de Moriond is discussed

Constraints placed on physics beyond the Standard Model from the recent CLEO
observation of the inclusive decay $B\to X_s\gamma$ are summarized. Further
searches for new physics using the process $B\to X_s\ell^+\ell^-$ are
discussed. {Presented at the {\it International Workshop on B Physics: Physics
Beyond the Standard Model at the B Factory}, Nagoya, Japan, October 26-28,
1994}

We illustrate the current status of heavy quark physics on the lattice.
Special emphasis is paid to the question of systematic uncertainties and to the
connection of lattice computations to continuum physics. Latest results are
presented and discussed with respect to the progress in methods, statistical
accuracy and reliability.

The basic concepts of neutrino physics are presented at a level appropriate
for integration into elementary courses on quantum mechanics and/or modern
physics.

Here I summarize P5-WG (New/Alternative Physics Working Group) of
LCWS2000@FNAL, held on Oct 24-28, 2000. There were 13 talks altogether, 7 talks
on collider signals from new particles/interactions and 6 talks on extra
dimensional physics. We had very active and hot discussions among participants
for those new/alternative physics/ideas.

We review recent developments in charm physics, focusing on the physics of
charmed mesons. We discuss charm spectroscopy, decay constants, as well as
searches for new physics with charmed mesons. We discuss D0-anti-D0 mixing and
CP-violation in charm decays. We also present the modified Nelson plot of charm
mixing predictions.

Physical states of two-dimensional topological gauge theories are studied
using the BRST formalism in the light-cone gauge. All physical states are
obtained for the abelian theory. There are an infinite number of physical
states with different ghost numbers. Simple examples of physical states in a
non-abelian theory are also given.

In this scientific preface to the first issue of International Journal of
Geometric Methods in Modern Physics, we briefly survey some peculiarities of
geometric techniques in quantum models.

We give a review of the mathematical and physical properties of the
celebrated family of Calogero-like models and related spin chains.

A connection between fractional supersymmetric quantum mechanics and ordinary
supersymmetric quantum mechanics is established in this Letter.

A simple, approximate relation is found between the total energy of a free
atom and its atomic number: E ~= -Z^{2.411}. The existence of this index is
inherent in the Coulomb and many-body nature of the electron-electron
interaction in the atomic system and cannot be fabricated from the existing
fundamental physical constants.

It is shown that there exists a new physical reality -- the $\Psi$--ether.
All the achievements of quantum mechanics and quantum field theory are due to
the fact that both the theories include the influence of $\Psi$--ether on the
physical processes occurring in the Universe. Physics of the XXth century was
first of all the physics of $\Psi$--ether.

I advocate an extreme "shut-up-and-calculate" approach to physics, where our
external physical reality is assumed to be purely mathematical. This brief
essay motivates this "it's all just equations" assumption and discusses its
implications.

We briefly review the theoretical status and the open theoretical challenges
in the physics of heavy quarkonium.

An outline is sketched, of applications of the ideas and the mathematical
methods presented at the 19th symposium of the Hellenic Nuclear Physics Society
(HNPS) in Thessaloniki, May 2010

We analyze a very simple variant of the Lorentz pendulum, in which the length
is varied exponentially, instead of uniformly, as it is assumed in the standard
case. We establish quantitative criteria for the condition of adiabatic changes
in both pendula and put in evidence their substantially different physical
behavior with regard to adiabatic invariance.

The main highlights discussed at TAU2012 are briefly summarized. Besides the
standard topics on lepton physics covered also at previous conferences
(universality, QCD tests, V_{us} determination from tau decay, g-2, neutrino
oscillations, lepton-flavour violation), the tau lepton is playing now a very
important role in searches for new physics phenomena.

Lectures on flavor physics presented at the 2012 CERN HEP Summer School.
Content: 1) flavor physics within the Standard Model, 2) phenomenology of B and
D decays, 3) flavor physics beyond the Standard Model.

Motivated by the fact that information is encoded and processed by physical
systems, the P versus NP problem is examined in terms of physical processes. In
particular, we consider P as a class of deterministic, and NP as
nondeterministic, polynomial-time physical processes. Based on these
identifications, we review a self-reference physical process in quantum theory,
which belongs to NP but cannot be contained in P.

Some possible (re)sources of indeterminism and randomness encountered in
physics are enumerated. These gaps in the physical laws, if they exist, could
possibly be exploited for dualistic interfaces. We also speculate that physical
laws and order could possibly emerge from primordial chaos by means resembling
statistics and Ramsey theory.

Different aspects of Tau physics are discussed, both as a New Physics probe
and as a tool to study Standard Model physics. The goal of this Tau2014 opening
talk is to introduce (some of) the many research directions currently being
pursued with tau leptons, which will be discussed in great technical detail in
the following talks.

Since ancient times, mathematics has proven unreasonably effective in its
description of physical phenomena. As humankind enters a period of advancement
where the completion of the much coveted theory of quantum gravity is at hand,
there is mounting evidence this ultimate theory of physics will also be a
unified theory of mathematics.

This is a compilation of some well known propositions of Alain Connes
concerning the use of noncommutative geometry in mathematical physics.

It is shown that calculation of the momentum Fisher information of the
quasione- dimensional hydrogen atom recently presented by Saha et al (2017 Eur.
J. Phys. {\bf 38} 025103) is wrong. A correct derivation is provided and its
didactical advantages and scientific significances are highlighted.

Physical laws are a set of rules in the relationship between observations
made by the experimenter. All these observations are made through a mechanism
that links the external world to the experimenter's awareness, a mechanism
which is not under the experimenter's control. We discuss how this mechanism
can affect the physical laws as implied by the experimenter, and define
fundamental physical laws as the ones which remain invariant under the change
of such mechanism.

The European School of High-Energy Physics is intended to give young
physicists an introduction to the the- oretical aspects of recent advances in
elementary particle physics. These proceedings contain lecture notes on the
theory of quantum chromodynamics, Higgs physics, Flavour physics and CP
violation, and Supersymmetry.

We describe a variant of the popular game "Pictionary" based on terms used in
elementary and high school physics. We believe that drawing of physical terms
helps students develop a deeper understanding of physical concepts behind them,
as well as apply them in everyday situations.

The conference included about 90 talks covering a plethora of different
sectors, like Higgs physics, electroweak physics, top physics, BSM physics,
soft QCD, jets, PDFs, heavy ions, heavy flavours, spectroscopy, etc. A few
experimental results are here highlighted.

I review aspects of Michael Atiyah's research in fundamental theoretical
physics during the last ten years of his life, and contrast his deliberate
interest in physics during this period with the inadvertent impact on physics
of his early mathematical work.

Despite not being designed for it, the LHCb experiment has given
world-leading contributions in kaon and hyperon physics. In this contribution I
review the prospects for kaon physics at LHCb exploiting the already acquired
data and the current and future Upgrade scenarios.

This Physics Today article discusses why the physics community needs to
embrace the challenge of educating students with diverse educational
backgrounds to meet future research and workforce demands and outlines some of
the efforts underway.

The first Workshop on Tau Lepton Physics took place at Orsay in 1990. The
evolution of the field and some physics highlights are briefly described,
following the presentations discussed at the fifteen $\tau$ workshops that have
been held since then.

We discuss the possibility that the complexity of biological systems may lie
beyond the predictive capabilities of theoretical physics: in Stuart Kauffman's
words, there is a World Beyond Physics (WBP). It is argued that, in view of
modern developments of statistical mechanics, the WBP is smaller than one might
anticipate from the standpoint of fundamental physical theories.

We present an overview of SuperIso v4.1 which is a public program for the
calculation of flavour physics observables. We give examples of using SuperIso
to constrain new physics scenarios with kaon physics and present the
implications of rare B-decays.

High energy physics features many ingenious tools for extracting finite
results from formally divergent expressions. This brief note argues from a new
perspective that all such formal infinities are meaningful markers of new
physics. As such, they deserve to be explored in detail -- and even the
simplest quantum field theories have more of them than is commonly thought.

A bootstrap approach to the effective action in quantum field theory is
discussed which entails the invariance under quantum fluctuations of the
effective action describing physical reality (via the S-matrix).

Flavour experiments promise insights into energy scales as high as 200 TeV
and distances as small as Zeptometer and offer the chance to identify New
Physics

Among the symmetries in physics, the rotation symmetry is most familiar to
us. It is known that the spherical harmonics serve useful purposes when the
world is rotated. Squeeze transformations are also becoming more prominent in
physics, particularly in optical sciences and in high-energy physics. As can be
seen from Dirac's light-cone coordinate system, Lorentz boosts are squeeze
transformations. Thus the squeeze transformation is one of the fundamental
transformations in Einstein's Lorentz-covariant world. It is possible to define
a complete set of orthonormal functions defined for one Lorentz frame. It is
shown that the same set can be used for other Lorentz frames. Transformation
properties are discussed. Physical applications are discussed in both optics
and high-energy physics. It is shown that the Lorentz harmonics provide the
mathematical basis for squeezed states of light. It is shown also that the same
set of harmonics can be used for understanding Lorentz-boosted hadrons in
high-energy physics. It is thus possible to transmit physics from one branch of
physics to the other branch using the mathematical basis common to them.

We trace the evolution of Indian physics community from 1919 to 2013 by
analysing the coauthorship network constructed from papers published by authors
in India in American Physical Society journals. We make inferences on Indias
contribution to different branches of Physics and identify the most influential
Indian physicists at different time periods. The relative contribution of India
to global physics publication(research) and its variation across subfields of
Physics is assessed. We extract the changing collaboration pattern of authors
between Indian physicists through various network measures. We study the
evolution of Indian physics communities and trace the mean life and
stationarity of communities by size in different APS journals. We map the
transition of authors between communities of different sizes from 1970 to 2013,
capturing their birth, growth, merger and collapse. We find that Indian-Foreign
collaborations are increasing at a faster pace compared to the Indian-Indian.
We observe that the degree distribution of Indian collaboration networks
follows the power law, with distinct patterns between Physical Review A, B and
E, and high energy physics journals Physical Review C and D, and Physical
Review Letters. In almost every measure, we observe strong structural
differences between low-energy and high-energy physics journals.

We present an investigation into the interdisciplinary role of physics in a
physics-for-non-physicists course at Pomona College. This work is guided by
prior research into introductory physics for life-science (IPLS) courses, but
attends to significant differences in the scope and context of this course. We
interviewed enrolled students, physics professors, and professors from
non-physics disciplines to explore the function of this course and the role of
physics in the education of non-physics-science students. Interviews were audio
recorded and transcribed, then analyzed to identify emergent themes. These
themes outline the authentic physics, including content knowledge and other,
broader learning objectives, that play an important and distinct role in the
science education of enrolled students. Stakeholders generally align in their
emphasis of interdisciplinary relevance with some divergence in the specific
articulation of that idea. The differences can be understood through the
stakeholders' distinct areas of expertise, with non-physics professors
expressing value through relevance to their discipline and physics professors
focusing on essential aspects of physics.

Some of the reasons for the underrepresentation of women in physics are
evident in the reflections of two undergraduate women. Leia is a chemistry
major who loves college-level physical chemistry and quantum mechanics but does
not identify with the discipline of physics, partly because she has a low level
of self-efficacy as a physicist and has received very little recognition for
her work and learning in physics. Paulette is a physics major who loves physics
but feels isolated by the current physics learning environment. She reluctantly
dropped honors introductory lab after being snubbed by her male classmates who
partnered with one another, leaving her to work alone. Paulette's experiences
with condescending male professors activated a stereotype threat about who can
succeed in physics that caused her to disengage in class. We also discuss what
these women felt has helped them so far and explore their suggestions for what
would help women in physics courses as they pursue their quest for a physical
science degree.

Performing tasks in a physical environment is a crucial yet challenging
problem for AI systems operating in the real world. Physics simulation-based
tasks are often employed to facilitate research that addresses this challenge.
In this paper, first, we present a systematic approach for defining a physical
scenario using a causal sequence of physical interactions between objects.
Then, we propose a methodology for generating tasks in a physics-simulating
environment using these defined scenarios as inputs. Our approach enables a
better understanding of the granular mechanics required for solving
physics-based tasks, thereby facilitating accurate evaluation of AI systems'
physical reasoning capabilities. We demonstrate our proposed task generation
methodology using the physics-based puzzle game Angry Birds and evaluate the
generated tasks using a range of metrics, including physical stability,
solvability using intended physical interactions, and accidental solvability
using unintended solutions. We believe that the tasks generated using our
proposed methodology can facilitate a nuanced evaluation of physical reasoning
agents, thus paving the way for the development of agents for more
sophisticated real-world applications.

This is the proceedings article for the concluding lecture of the 1999 High
Energy Physics Conference of the European Physical Society. In this article, I
review a number of topics that were highlighted at the meeting and have more
general importance in high energy physics. The major topics discussed include:
(1) precision electroweak physics, (2) CP violation, (3) new directions in QCD,
(4) supersymmetry spectroscopy, (5) the experimental physics of extra
dimensions.

In this talk I discuss the relevance of atomic physics in understanding some
important questions about elementary particle physics. A particular attention
is devoted to atomic parity violation measurements which seem to suggest new
physics beyond the Standard Model. Atomic physics might also be relevant in
discovering possible violations of the CPT symmetry.

We analyze the physics opportunities that would be made possible by upgrades
of CERN's proton accelerator complex. These include the new physics possible
with luminosity or energy upgrades of the LHC, options for a possible future
neutrino complex at CERN, and opportunities in other physics including rare
kaon decays, other fixed-target experiments, nuclear physics and antiproton
physics, among other possibilities. We stress the importance of inputs from
initial LHC running and planned neutrino experiments, and summarize the
principal detector R&D issues.

Noncommuting spatial coordinates and fields can be realized in actual
physical situations. Plane wave solutions to noncommuting photodynamics exhibit
violaton of Lorentz invariance (special relativity).

Certain transformations of isolated physical systems underlying various
conservation laws in physics are noted. As regards each of these
transformations, there is a theoretical action that is equivalent to a matched
physical action on the system. Evidence supporting this thesis is found in
experimental psychological research where results of various experiments allow
that the imagined rotation of an object is analogous to a physical rotation.
The conservation laws based on the transformations noted are theoretical or
mental in nature to the same extent that they are physical. When one of the
conservation principles noted is tested by carrying out the relevant
transformation on the system, this test is essentially one of the influence of
mental activity on physical reality.

After some brief biographical notes, Wolfgang Pauli's main contributions to
general relativity, quantum theory, quantum field theory, and elementary
particle physics are reviewed. A detailed description is given how Pauli
descovered - before the advent of the new quantum mechanics - his exclusion
principle.

This paper is a rudimentary introduction, geared at non-specialists, to how
noncommutative field theories arise in physics and their applications to string
theory, particle physics and condensed matter systems.

This is a set of methodical instructions for solutions of problems in Nuclear
Physics. It is written on the basis of seminars to the course of lectures
on``Nuclear Physics'' delivered at the Physical and Mechanical Faculty of the
St. Petersburg State Polytechnic University for the students of the 4th Course
in ``Technical Physics'' and ``Medical Physics''. The main aim of these
methodical instructions is to develop the experience of students in scientific
approaches to solutions of practical problems in Nuclear Physics.

Mathematics is an essential element of physics problem solving, but experts
often fail to appreciate exactly how they use it. Math may be the language of
science, but math-in-physics is a distinct dialect of that language. Physicists
tend to blend conceptual physics with mathematical symbolism in a way that
profoundly affects the way equations are used and interpreted. Research with
university physics students in classes from algebra-based introductory physics
indicates that the gap between what students think they are supposed to be
doing and what their instructors expect them to do can cause severe problems.

The LHCb experiment is designed for hadronic flavour physics and will look
for New Physics manifestations in the decay of charm and bottom hadrons
abundantly produced at the LHC. All parts of the LHCb physics programme can be
embarked on with the expected statistics to be collected during the first
2010-2011 physics run at $\sqrt{s}$ = 7 TeV. We present first preliminary
results on strangeness production, and demonstrate, using the few nb-1 of
already collected data, the potential for initial measurements in heavy-flavour
physics.

Some important topics from history of neutrino physics over the last fifty
years are discussed. History of neutrinos is older, at 4th December 2010 it
will be eightieth anniversary of the "neutrino birth". In that day W. Pauli
wrote the famous letter to participants of the physics conference at Tubingen
with the suggestion that "there could exist in the nuclei electrically neutral
particle". We will concentrate mostly on the 50 years of neutrino history just
to show the long tradition of the Zakopane Theoretical School.

International research work for young people is common in physics. However,
work experience and career plan of female workers in physics are little
studied. We explore them by interviewing three international female workers in
physics.

A topological method for calculate average speed.

We define a "quantum spherical model", a quantum lattice model.

This talk reviews some of the theoretical progress and outstanding issues in
QCD, flavour physics, Higgs and electroweak physics and the search for physics
beyond the Standard Model at the Tevatron and the LHC, and previews some
physics possibilities for future runs of the LHC and proposed future hadron
colliders.

Run 2 of the LHC offers some beautiful prospects for new physics, including
flavour physics as well as more detailed studies of the Higgs boson and
searches for new physics beyond the Standard Model (BSM). One of the
possibilities for BSM physics is supersymmetry, and flavour physics plays
various important r\^oles in constraining supersymmetric models.

Probabilities of resonant tunneling through a potential barrier are compared
for a rigid molecule and an excited molecule. It is shown that the resonance
spectrum is mainly governed by the transmission resonance spectrum of the rigid
molecule. Analytical expressions for the probability for the tunneling of the
rigid molecule through a barrier allow resonance-spectrum-averaged observables,
including quantum diffusion, to be estimated.

We describe a project-based physics lab, which we proposed to third-year
university students. Theses labs are based on new open-source low-cost
equipment (Arduino microcontrollers and compatible sensors). Students are given
complete autonomy: they develop their own experimental setup and study the
physics topic of their choice. The goal of these projects is to let students
discover the reality of experimental physics. Technical specifications of the
acquisition material and case studies are presented for practical
implementation in other universities.

We review a novel model-independent approach to the analysis of new-physics
effects in the $s\to u\ell^-\bar\nu$ transitions. We apply it to (semi)leptonic
kaon decays and study their complementarity with pion and hyperon $\beta$
decays or with collider searches of new physics.

The European School of High-Energy Physics is intended to give young
physicists an introduction to the theoretical aspects of recent advances in
elementary particle physics. These proceedings contain lecture notes on the
Standard Model of electroweak interactions, quantum chromodynamics, Higgs
physics, physics beyond the Standard Model, flavour physics, and practical
statistics for particle physicists.

This paper reviews the status of women in science, physics in particular, in
Cyprus. We describe the development of physics in the country, focusing on the
contributions and participation of women. We present statistical data for the
last several years, reviewing the percentage of women who are pursuing physics
as a subject of study or as a profession. We report the gender ratios at
different career stages and find that while women are well represented in
undergraduate studies, female physicists are underrepresented in senior
positions. We discuss factors that might affect the career evolution of women
in physics in Cyprus.

(This is a general physics level overview article about hidden sectors, and
how they motivate searches for long-lived particles. Intended for publication
in Physics Today.)
  Searches for new physics at the Large Hadron Collider have so far come up
empty, but we just might not be looking in the right place. Spectacular bursts
of particles appearing seemingly out of nowhere could shed light on some of
nature's most profound mysteries.

The CERN-Latin-American School of High-Energy Physics is intended to give
young physicists an introduction to the theoretical aspects of recent advances
in elementary particle physics. These proceedings contain lecture notes on the
Standard Model of electroweak interactions, flavour physics, neutrino physics,
Higgs physics, new physics beyond the standard model, quantum chromodynamics
under extreme conditions, cosmology, an introduction to experimental facilities
at the high-energy frontier, and practical statistics for particle physicists.

In most physical sciences, students from underrepresented minority (URM)
groups constitute a small percentage of earned degrees at the undergraduate and
graduate levels. Bridge programs can serve as an initiative to increase the
number of URM students that gain access to graduate school and earn advanced
degrees in physics. This talk discussed levels of representation in physical
sciences as well as some results and best practices of current bridge programs
in physics. The APS Bridge Program has enabled over 100 students to be placed
into Bridge or graduate programs in physics, while retaining 88% of those
placed.

After Dirac introduced the monopole, topological objects have played
increasingly important roles in physics. In this review we discuss the role of
the knot, the most sophisticated topological object in physics, and related
topological objects in various areas in physics. In particular, we discuss how
the knots appear in Maxwell's theory, Skyrme theory, and multi-component
condensed matter physics.

The European School of High-Energy Physics is intended to give young
physicists an introduction to the theoretical aspects of recent advances in
elementary particle physics. These proceedings contain lecture notes on the
theory of the Weak interaction and Higgs physics, flavour physics and CP
violation, neutrinos, theories beyond the Standard Model, physics at the LHC
Run-2 and beyond, practical statistics for high-energy physicists, and
cosmology and dark matter.

Expansions of physical functions are controlled by their singularities, which
have special structure because they themselves are physical, corresponding to
instantons, caustics or saddle configurations. Resurgent asymptotics formalizes
this idea mathematically, and leads to significantly more powerful
extrapolation methods to extract physical information from a finite number of
terms of an expansion, including precise decoding of non-perturbative effects.

The paper "Physics without determinism: Alternative interpretations of
classical physics" [Phys. Rev. A, 100:062107, Dec 2019] defines finite
information quantities (FIQ). A FIQ expresses the available information about
the value of a physical quantity. We show that a change in the measurement unit
does not preserve the information carried by a FIQ, and therefore that the
definition provided in the paper is not complete.

Learning to create, use, and evaluate models is a central element of becoming
a scientist. In physics, we often begin an analysis of a complex system with
highly simplified or toy models. In introductory physics classes, we tend to
use them without comment or motivation. Some students infer that physics is
irrelevant to their understanding of the real world and are discouraged from
making the cognitive blend of physics concepts with math symbology essential
for making sense of physics. In this paper, I discuss the often hidden barriers
that make it difficult for our students to accept and understand the value of
toy models, and suggest instructional approaches that can help.

Differentiable physics provides a new approach for modeling and understanding
the physical systems by pairing the new technology of differentiable
programming with classical numerical methods for physical simulation. We survey
the rapidly growing literature of differentiable physics techniques and
highlight methods for parameter estimation, learning representations, solving
differential equations, and developing what we call scientific foundation
models using data and inductive priors. We argue that differentiable physics
offers a new paradigm for modeling physical phenomena by combining classical
analytic solutions with numerical methodology using the bridge of
differentiable programming.

This article describes reflections on the Fifth International Conference on
Women in Physics which was a conference attended by 215 female physicists and a
few male physicists from 49 different countries. The article focuses on the
barriers that women face in their professional advancement in physics and the
extent to which the situation is different in various countries.

The Second Biennal African Conference on Fundamental and Applied Physics
(ACP) took place in March 2022. The scientific program included three summary
reports on the African Strategy for Fundamental and Applied Physics (ASFAP).
Here, the summary report of "Particle Physics and related applications" groups
(Particle Physics, Nuclear Physics, Medical Physics, Astrophysics and
Cosmology, Fluid and Plasma, and Complex Systems; and the cross-cutting fields:
Accelerators, Instrumentation and Detectors, Computing, and Nuclear Energy) is
presented. The scope of each of the groups, the events organised so far and
their upcoming activities are summarised.

Greek mythology supplies fundamental physics with the names of numerous
(100+) experiments, machines, codes, and phenomena. I present the central
narrative of Greek mythos via these names. Hyperlinks are provided for their
physics counterparts, and the names are collected in myth- and physics-themed
indices.

This Multi-Petawatt Physics Prioritization (MP3) Workshop Report captures the
outcomes from a community-initiated workshop held April 20-22, 2022 at Sorbonne
University in Paris, France. The MP3 workshop aimed at developing science
questions to guide research and future experiments in four areas identified by
corresponding MP3 working groups: high-field physics and quantum
electrodynamics (HFP/QED), laboratory astrophysics and planetary physics
(LAPP), laser-driven nuclear physics (LDNP), and particle acceleration and
advanced light sources (PAALS).

This is a short introduction of the exterior form formalism focus on its
applications in physics and then mostly aimed to physics students. As a rule of
a game played here we never use a coordinate frame neither in the definitions
nor in the proofs but only at the end in order to recover the classical physics
equations. This approach is unusual but we think is helpful for the
understanding and very valuable to grab the physical meanings of the
mathematical object.

This paper is aimed at giving a complete review of the latest (post-1998
Physics in Collision conference) experimental results on charm physics.

Lectures note for Cargese 99 Summer School Particle Physics: Ideas and Recent
Development NATO Advanced Institute, Corsica, July 26-August 7, 1999

The LHCb experiment at LHC is a single-arm spectrometer designed to pursue an
extensive study of B physics and CP violation. In this contribution the physics
which will be performed by LHCb is reviewed.

An overview is presented about old and recent methods to compute the $K\to
\pi \pi$ decay amplitude.

This summary discusses some of the topics which were of overarching interest
at the Symposium. These included, corrections to perturbative QCD predictions;
heavy quark physics; electroweak symmetry breaking; and physics of the top
quark.

Contents:
  1. Pomeron physics
  2. Multiplicities
  3. Single-particle distributions
  4. Correlations and fluctuations
  5. Special final states and interaction mechanisms
  6. Cosmic rays and forward detectors

Muon colliders might greatly extend the energy frontier of collider physics.
One can contemplate circular colliders with center-of-mass energies in excess
of 10 TeV. Some physics issues that might be relevant at such a machine are
discussed.

I briefly review the recent status of research on physics potential of
neutrino factories including the discussions on parameter degeneracy.

A speculative discussion on the role of various symmetries in physics.

I review the studies, which were reported after the last Linear Collider
Workshop, on top quark physics and QCD physics at a future e+e- linear
collider.

A (updated) summary of the Photon-Photon and Electron-Photon physics session
is presented.

Section 10 of the 2004 edition of the Review of Particle Physics.

Work on electroweak precision calculations and event generators for
electroweak physics studies at current and future colliders is summarized.

The cosmological consequences of particle physics grand unified theories
(GUTs) are studied. Cosmological models are implemented in realistic particle
physics models. Models consistent from both particle physics and cosmological
considerations are selected. (...)

We present a concise review of where we stand in particle physics today.
First we discuss QCD, then the electroweak sector and finally the motivations
and the avenues for new physics beyond the Standard Model.

This article, written in honor of Fritz Rohrlich, briefly surveys the role of
topology in physics.

The present-day crisis in quantum field theory is described.

We give an explicit parameterization of the general 8k -3 instanton.

The notion of the BF (topological) gauge field theory is defined.

We present a classical formalism describing two-time physics with Abelian
canonical gauge field backgrounds. The formalism can be used as a starting
point for the construction of an interacting quantized two-time physics theory
in a noncommutative soace-time.

Some physical results in four dimensional large N gauge theories on a
periodic torus are summarized.

Quasi-free endomorphisms of the CAR and CCR algebras are studied from the
point of view of the theory of superselection sectors.

This is a survey of recent contributions to the area of special Kaehler
geometry. It is based on lectures given at the 21st Winter School on Geometry
and Physics held in Srni in January 2001.

Feynman's path integral is generalized to quantum mechanics on p-adic space
and time. Such p-adic path integral is analytically evaluated for quadratic
Lagrangians. Obtained result has the same form as that one in ordinary quantum
mechanics.

Functional Schr\"{o}dinger equations for interacting fields are solved via
rigorous non-perturbative Feynman type integrals.

We address a conceptual issue of reconciling the traditional canonical
quantization framework of quantum theory with the spatially restricted quantum
dynamics and the related spectral problems for confined and global observables
of the quantum system.

Some properties of Chern-Simons terms are presented and their physical
utility is surveyed.

This is a review for Elsevier's Encyclopedia of mathematical physics.

This is a very brief introduction to Wilson's Renormalization Group with
emphasis on mathematical developments.

A coincise review about Euclidean (Quantum) Field Theory is presented. It
deals with the general structural properties, the connections with Quantum
Field Theory, the exploitation in Constructive Quantum Field Theory, and the
physical interpretation.

This note reviews some physical aspects of the chaotic hypothesis in
nonequilibrium statistical mechanics and attempts at the physical
interpretation of the fluctuation theorem as a quantitative intermittency
property

It is demonstrated that radiative corrections increase tunneling probability
of a charged particle.

We give a one dimensional octonionic representation of the different Clifford
algebra $Cliff(5,5)\sim Cliff(1,9), Cliff(6,6)\sim Cliff(2,10)$ and lastly
$Cliff(7,6)\sim Cliff(3,10)$.

A discussion of different criteria of consistency of quantum field theory
from the point of view of physics and mathematics.

We describe the physics opportunities and technical challenges of a muon
collider as a tool for exploring high energy physics phenomena.

A simple example of especially constructed potential barrier enables to show
analytically (not numerically) the existence of tunneling effect for a
Sommerfeld particle.

Connection between the concept of entanglement and origin of nonlinear
phenomena in optics is discussed.

A modest aim of this pedagogical presentation is to analyze, critically,
certain fundamental physical concepts to illustrate the physical principles
behind the special theory of relativity and, hence, to also illustrate the
limitations of its applicability.

We follow some (wild) speculations on trying to understand the uniqueness of
our physical world, from the field concept to F-Theory.

Brief overview of the `Pseudoscience' flavor of the `Physics in Films'
project at the University of Central Florida.

By using the SLAC-SPIRES database it is shown that, in spite of obtaining a
high impact, Nature and Science are still less popular in the particle physics
community.

Some contributions of physics towards the understanding of consciousness are
described. As recent relevant models, associative memory neural networks are
mentioned. It is shown that consciousness and quantum physics share some
properties. Two existing quantum models are discussed.

It is shown that probabilistic treatment of quantum mechanics can be
coordinated with causality of all physical processes. The physical
interpretation of quantum-mechanical phenomena such as process of measurement
and collapse of quantum state is given.

We reply to a comment on `Semiclassical dynamics of a spin-1/2 in an
arbitrary magnetic field'.

Jacobi fields of classical solutions of a Hamiltonian mechanical system are
quantized in the framework of vertical-extended Hamiltonian formalism. Quantum
Jacobi fields characterize quantum transitions between classical solutions.

We are discussing the possibility to find a proper unique conditions for an
experimental study of the Schr\"odinger quantization problem in the neutron
stars physics. A simple toy model for physically different quantizations is
formulated and a possible physical consequences are derived.

We use the laws of relativistic physics to show that classically motivated
counterfactual statements are inadequate when discussing the principles of
quantum physics and that EPR style arguments against state reduction are
incorrect.

Longitudinal spin physics program at RHIC-PHENIX is introduced. Recent
results of pi0 cross section and A_LL are presented and discussed.

It is proposed that the physical universe is an instance of a mathematical
structure which possesses a dual structure, and that this dual structure is the
collection of all possible knowledge of the physical universe. In turn, the
physical universe is then the dual space of the latter.

Prospects of the two future e^+e^- flavour factories are discussed.
  The detector designs and the technical challenges are described together with
the motivating physics background.

A divergence-free approach to relativistic quantum electrodynamics based on
regularisation of equations of quantum mechanics is discussed. This approach is
shown to be exactly equivalent to the conventional Feynman-Dyson
renormalisation techniques.

I bring to the attention of the physics community the non-existence of a
Putnam Physics Competition in North America despite the fact that the Putnam
Mathematical Competition has been well known and highly successful for 70
years.

The life and accomplishments of Grete Hermann are described. During the early
twentieth century, she worked in physics, mathematics, philosophy and
education. Her most notable accomplishments in physics were in the
interpretation of quantum theory.

After an historical introduction on the standard algebraic approach to
quantum mechanics of large systems we review the basic mathematical aspects of
the algebras of unbounded operators. After that we discuss in some details
their relevance in physical applications.

A survey is made of selected topics in flavour physics where real progress is
expected in the coming half-decade, paying particular attention to those where
New Physics signals may appear.

The validity of the Ehrenfest's theorem in Abelian and non-Abelian quantum
field theories is examined. The gauge symmetries are taken to be unbroken. By
suitably choosing the physical subspace, the above validity is proven in both
the cases.

Highlights of top quark physics presented at the 2009 Europhysics Conference
on High Energy Physics from 16-22 July 2009 in Krakow, Poland, are reviewed.

This article is a short and non-exhaustive summary of the prospects to find
New Physics with LHCb as was presented at the HCP conference at Toronto on
August 26th 2010.

The similarity between the Polya's conjecture and the Bonomol'nyi bound
remind us to consider a physical approach to Polya's conjecture. We conjecture
a duality between the waves and the soliton solutions on the surface. We
consider the special case in the disc.

We trace the origin of the concept which was named by the High Energy Physics
Community "The Cabibbo angle"

It has recently been claimed that Zitterbewegung has been observed. However,
we argue that it is not an observable and that the authors' observations must
be reinterpreted.

We give a brief introduction to the topics discussed at the ISMD 2010
Symposium (Antwerp, 2010) on forward physics at the LHC and its interplay with
cosmic rays physics.

I offer brief observations on matters discussed at the XIV International
Conference on Hadron Spectroscopy and explore prospects for hadron physics.

We show that, contrary to a claim made in arXiv:1011.0645, the von
Neumann-Winger bound states that lie in the continuum of the scattering states
are fundamentally different from Naimark's spectral singularities.

We present a novel isospectral deformation chain in supersymmetric quantum
mechanics. The chain is applied to the Coulomb potential.

Kenneth G. Wilson made deep and insightful contributions to statistical
physics, particle physics, and related fields. He was also a helpful and
thoughtful human being.

Public talk at the EmQM13 conference opening event on "The Future of Quantum
Mechanics"

Landau damping is calculated using real variables, clarifying the physical
mechanism.

I summarize key aspects of the quest for physics beyond the Standard Model in
flavour physics as discussed at the BEACH 2014 conference in Birmingham.

From the analysis of the quantum and relativistic properties of the particles
it results the unified quantum-relativistic dynamics of the physical reality
(Universe).

These four lectures, given at the British Universities Summer School in
Theoretical Elementary Particle Physics (BUSSTEPP), held in 2014 in
Southampton, are a brief introduction to a selection of current topics in
physics Beyond the Standard Model.

We survey on the recent progress toward mirror symmetry between
Landau-Ginzburg models.

Assuming special relativity and Hamiltonian particle dynamics for a
noncanonical Poisson bracket, the Jacobi identity is shown to have nontrivial
physical consequences, including the homogeneous Maxwell equations and the
geodesic law of motion of curved spacetime.

Inspired by magnetic impurity considerations some broad classes of Abelian
Higgs and Chern--Simons--Higgs BPS vortex equations are derived and analyzed.

DGRAV News:
  DGRAV
  we hear that....
  Research Briefs:
  GW150914
  Obituaries:
  Remembering Felix Pirani
  Remembering David Finkelstein
  Steve, the physicist
  Remembering Sergio Dain
  Editorial:
  Gravitational physics in the modern university

Various statistical issues relevant to searches for new physics or to
parameter determination in analyses of data in neutrino experiments are briefly
discussed.

This thesis discusses recent advances in precision calculations of quantum
chromodynamics and their application to the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) physics
program and beyond.

This is an entry for Physics Today's recent essay contest, written as a
"Search and Discovery" news story, imagining what major breakthroughs might be
shaking the physics world one hundred years from now.

I will report below on a few examples of raving and insane (or maybe utterly
genial) sentences that can be found in famous and otherwise admirable books of
physics, because I genuinely believe it is amusing.

We highlight recent developments in neutrino astrophysics. We discuss some of
the connections with nuclear physics.

We discuss avenues for diagnosing new physics hinted from lepton
nonuniversality in rare $b$-decays, and physics implications.

This article discusses dependence on initial conditions in natural and social
sciences with focus on physical science. The main focus is on the newly
discovered rough dependence on initial data.

The behavior of scattering amplitudes in the vicinity of a physical-region
Landau singularity is considered. The impact on LHC processes is discussed.

The eigenstates of linear combinations of the Susskind and Glogowerphase
operators for the harmonic oscillator are constructed. It is shown that such
eigenstates are squeezed states.

We use the generalized Cauchy matrix approach to derive the N-soliton
solutions for the (2+2)-dimensional Toda lattice.

We apply the concept of self-organized criticality in statistical physics to
the study of multihadron production in high energy collisions.

Before they met, David Bohm and Roger Penrose each puzzled over the paradox
of the arrow of time. After they met, the case for projective physical space
became clearer.

This paper is a basic introduction to laser physics, especially that relevant
to accelerator science. It presents the essential physics of a laser, some of
the different types of laser system available, the propagation of laser beams,
and the key diagnostics that are used for lasers.

We review how an algebraic formulation for the dynamics of a physical system
allows to describe a reduction procedure for both classical and quantum
evolutions.

Using two-dimensional duals of soft dynamics in QED and gravity, we perform
an expansion of the respective memory effects in spin multipoles.

The physics at Frascati in the years 60's - 70's is reviewed together with
the role played by Bruno Touschek

This is an experimentalist's view of the recent results on, and prospects
for, CP Violation in charmed and bottom baryons

The Cal-Bridge program connects promising juniors and seniors from
underrepresented groups with STEM faculty mentors to help smooth the transition
from undergraduate to graduate programs.

We review recent progress on heavy flavor physics from lattice QCD.

These are the lecture notes for a short course on geometric quantization
given by the author at the XVIII Modave Summer School on Mathematical Physics,
Sep 5 - Sep 9.

This note gives an overview of the BV formalism in its various incarnations
and applications.

In this article, we give an overview over recent developments in the
mathematical treatment of topological insulators using coarse geometry.

In this paper, we provide an example of a partially hyperbolic diffeomorphism
with any finite number of physical measures when some Lyapunov exponent is 0 on
the center.

We show how starting with one-string space of states in BRST formalism one
can construct a large class of physical quantities containing, in particular,
scattering amplitudes for bosonic string and superstring. The same techniques
work for heterotic string.

We demonstrate that, in certain cases, quantization and the classical limit
provide functors that are "almost inverse" to each other. These functors map
between categories of algebraic structures for classical and quantum physics,
establishing a categorical equivalence.

We derive a set of Clifford-algebraic formulas for two major nonlinear
conformal transformations of the physical quantities related to Maxwell's
equations. The superiority of these formulas over their vector-tensorial
counterparts are demonstrated through three illustrative examples.

A continuum mechanical model of coupled dislocation based plasticity and
fracture at finite deformation is proposed. Motivating questions and target
applications of the model are sketched.

This is a survey of Rational Homotopy Theory, intended for a Mathematical
Physics readership.

I discuss various aspects of the concept of a quantity in physics and
metrology and related consideration in reference documents of IUPAP, IUPAC,
ISO, IEC, and JCGM.

b-Quark Physics at DORIS

I review recent progress made on heavy quark physics on the lattice.

We present recent physics results from the Tevatron Collider experiments CDF
and D0. (contribution to Lattice 2004)

We review ongoing efforts and discuss possible future directions in informing
the public and educating students about Particle Physics.

We discuss some of the issues to be accounted under conducting spin physics
program at RHIC.

Elementary introduction to physics beyond the Standard Model. Lectures
delivered at the 1995 European School of High-Energy Physics in Dubna, Russia.

A brief review of the Standard Model of particle physics is presented.

A review over recent experimental progress in the physics of the fifth quark
is given.

Brief review of the diffractive physics at HERA, stressing QCD aspects.

We present in this talk the phenomenological and theoretical advances in
Odderon physics which occured since the last EDS Blois Workshop (Seoul, 1997).

Contents:
  1. Prologomena to any meta future physics
  1.1 Physics needs for building future accelerators
  1.2 Physics needs for funding future accelerators
  2. Physics questions for future accelerators
  2.1 Crimes and misapprehensions
  2.1.1 Organized religion 2.1.2 Feudalism 2.1.3 Trotsky was right
  2.2 The Standard Model as an effective field theory
  2.3 What is the scale of new physics?
  2.4 What could be out there?
  2.5 Model-independent conclusions
  3. Future accelerators
  3.1 What is the physics driving the LHC?
  3.2 What is the physics driving the LC?
  3.2.1 Higgs physics is golden
  3.2.2 LHC won't be sufficient to unravel the new physics as the TeV scale
  3.2.3 LC precision measurements can pin down new physics scales
  3.3 Why a Neutrino Factory?
  3.4 Pushing the energy frontier

Recent developments in the field of Two Photon Physics at LEP, and their
contribution to QCD are reviewed.

The physics potential of low-performance and high-performance neutrino
factories is briefly reviewed..

These notes are a written version of a set of lectures given at TASI-02 on
the topic of precision electroweak physics.

Draft version of an article prepared for the Encyclopedia of Mathematical
Physics, Elsevier, to appear in 2006.

A concise introduction to the Standard Model of fundamental particle
interactions is presented.

The earlier history of two--photon physics is reviewed.

I discuss the interpretation of the recent experimental data on $B_s$ mixing
in terms of model-independent new-physics parameters.

A survey of ghost techniques in mathematical physics, which can be grouped
under the rubric of `cohomological physics', particularly BRST cohomology.

This is a brief and subjective description of ideas which formed our present
field-theoretic understanding of fundamental physics.

I examine various aspects of event-symmetric physics such as phase changes,
symmetry breaking and duality by studying a number of simple toy-models.

The instability of "physical" preaccelerative solution of the Lorentz-Dirac
equation is explicitly shown

The polysymplectic phase space of covariant Hamiltonian field theory can be
provided with the current algebra bracket.

The history of anticommuting coordinates is decribed.

Bearing in mind BV quantization of gauge gravitation theory, we extend
general covariant transformations to the BRST ones.

This paper reviews connections between physics and computation, and explores
their implications. The main topics are computational "hardness" of physical
systems, computational status of fundamental theories, quantum computation, and
the Universe as a computer.

In this note, we give an exposition of the construction of Seiberg-Witten
invariants.

The mathematical universe discussed here gives models of possible structures
our physical universe can have.

We investigate the adiabatic limit for classical charges coupled to their
Maxwell field.

An integral representation for matrix Airy function is presented

No bracket determines the evolution operator in covariant (polysymplectic and
multisymplectic) Hamiltonian field theory.

We present classes of discrete reversible systems which are at the same time
chaotic and solvable.

This is an expository article for the Encyclopedia of Mathematical Physics on
the subject in the title.

An overview of the foundations of Classical Mechanics

This is a submission to the Encyclopedia of Mathematical Physics (Elsevier,
2006) and conforms to its referencing guidelines.

The Vlasov system of equations for a plasma is given in relativistic form,
and using the correct expression for the "Lorentz" force, that is the one
guaranteing real self-consistency.

The deformation quantization of Moyal-Weyl star product of functions of
quaternions is investigated.

The relation between the Moyal-Weyl deformation quantization and
quasiconformal mappings of Riemann surfaces of complex analysis are shown by
several examples.

This is a letter to editor, about a previously published paper and comments.

A proof that the generation of gravitational waves is physically impossible.

The physical nature of the fluorescence depletion (FD) effect and the
possible way of its experimental study are discussed.

The paper presents shortly the geometric approach to the problem of a general
quantization formalism, both physically meaningful and mathematically
consistent.

This is a comment on Phys. Rev. A 67, 022104(2003).

Public lecture given at The Fields Institute, June 2, 2005.

In this paper we present an example of a simple study of velocity
proportional resistance force. Some experimental determinations are presented.

Mathematical and phenomenological arguments in favor of asymmetric time
evolution of micro-physical states are presented.

The paper gives the main lines of a general theory for physical measurements.

Being quantized, conserved Noether symmetry functions are represented by
Hermitian operators in the space of solutions of the Schrodinger equation, and
their mean values are conserved.

The input and output algebras of an infinite qubit system and their
representations are described.

This is a comment on a collection of statements gathered on the occasion of
the Quantum Physics of Nature meeting in Vienna.

The current status of the derivation of kinetic equations from quantum
many-particle dynamics is reviewed.

Several topics in the Kphysics together with the new facility J-Parc are
introduced.

Nauenberg's extended critique of Quantum Enigma rests on fundamental
misunderstandings.

We present here a note which synthesizes our previous ideas concerning some
problems in cosmology, and the numerical correspondences between the physical
constants that we could deduce.

One should not confuse a physical constant with a theory which incorporates
the constant. Planck's constant h can appear in classical or quantum theories.

In this paper we review the most recent results in the fields of beauty and
charm Physics

I discuss charged lepton-flavor violation in physics beyond the standard
model and review topics related to it.

A survey of recent results in charm physics from CDF is presented.

We review our expectations in the last year before the LHC commissioning.

We review some theoretical and experimental issues in unparticle physics,
focusing mainly on collider signatures.

Revisiting canonical integration of the classical pendulum around its
unstable equilibrium, normal hyperbolic canonical coordinates are constructed

We present some recent results concerning the long time semiclassical
approximation .

We derive the wave function for N-dimensional hydrogen atom in the momentum
representation with the phase factor using the generating function method and
Hankel's integral.

The subject of uranium isotope separation by the use of gas cenrifuges is a
very active one. I present the physics of this process and some of its history.

Which non-local hidden variables could complement the description of physical
Universe? The model of extended Newtonian dynamics is presented.

A literature review of neutrino physics and the solar neutrino problem.

A critical discussion of recent attempts to revise the modern physics history
is presented.

Remarks on Michael Frayn's play "Copenhagen".

For several decades there has been no breakthrough in fundamental physics as
revolutionary as relativity and quantum physics despite the amazing advancement
of applied physics and technology. By discussing several examples of what
physics could have achieved by now, but failed, I will argue that the present
state of fundamental physics is not caused by the lack of talented physicists,
but rather by problematic general views on how one should do physics. Although
it appears to be widely believed that such general views cannot affect the
advancement of physics I would like to draw the attention of the younger
generation of physicists to three reasons that might have been responsible for
failures in the past and might cause problems in the future: (i) misconceptions
on the nature of physical theories, (ii) underestimation of the role of
conceptual analyses so successfully employed by Galileo and Einstein, and (iii)
overestimation of the predictive power of mathematics in physics.

We report on particle physics applications of the renormalization group
equation of Newton's constant.

A new kind of Nuclear rocket engine with very High specific impulse is
presented

We give an universal algorithm for testing the local unitary equivalence of
states for multipartite system with arbitrary dimensions.

A family of general integral identities is derived and several applications
of physical interest are presented

The experimental realization of quantum degenerate cold Fermi gases with
large hyperfine spins opens up a new opportunity for exotic many-body physics.

This is to present a previously overlooked q-analog of the five-term
dilogarithm relation.

A unified formula for analytical evaluation of two-center exchange, hybrid
and coulombic type integrals is presented.

We modify Hamiltonian mechanics. We reformulate the law of conservation of
energy.

We study the disordered quantum walk in one dimension, and obtain the weak
limit theorem.

This is an extended abstract for the conference "Microlocal2011 : Microlocal
Methods in Mathematical Physics and Global Analysis Universit\"at T\"ubingen,
June 14 - 18, 2011"

Mini-Proceedings ECT*: Speakable in quantum mechanics: atomic, nuclear and
subnuclear physics tests, ECT*-Trento, 29 August - 2 September, 2011

Short introduction in NPD with several applications to (in)finite dimensional
problems of mechanics, hydrodynamics, M-theory and quanputing is given.

This primer is intended as an introduction to differential forms, a central
object in modern mathematical physics, for scientists and engineers.

This is a series of lecture notes explaining topos theory and its application
in physics.

Recent lattice QCD results on charmonium spectroscopy are reviewed.

We show how degeneracies, accidental or otherwise, can obscure some
interesting physics. We further show how one can get around this problem.

It is shown that quantized dynamical system with second class constraints has
infinite dimensional Hilbert space.

The problem of definition of zero modes for quantum Liouville model is
discussed and corresponding Hilbert space representation is constructed.

This paper summarizes the status of selected rare decay experiments in kaon
and muon physics.

An enstrophy cascade is exhibited for the Navier-Stokes equations in physical
scales independently of boundary conditions under physically reasonable
assumptions on the flow.

Poisson-Lie T-duality is explained using the language of Courant algebroids.

We discuss the correspondence between Nahm's equations, the
Basu-Harvey-Terashima equations, and Lie superalgebras.

This dissertation is about The history of quaternions and their associated
rotation groups as it relates to theoretical physics.

A primary goal of physics is to create mathematical models that allow both
predictions and explanations of physical phenomena. We weave maths extensively
into our physics instruction beginning in high school, and the level and
complexity of the maths we draw on grows as our students progress through a
physics curriculum. Despite much research on the learning of both physics and
math, the problem of how to successfully teach most of our students to use
maths in physics effectively remains unsolved. A fundamental issue is that in
physics, we don't just use maths, we think about the physical world with it. As
a result, we make meaning with math-ematical symbology in a different way than
mathematicians do. In this talk we analyze how developing the competency of
mathematical modeling is more than just "learning to do math" but requires
learning to blend physical meaning into mathematical representations and use
that physical meaning in solving problems. Examples are drawn from across the
curriculum.

Review of lepton dipole moments produced for the Physics In Collision 2015
conference.

Classes started in the newly established Physics Department of Calcutta
University Science College in 1916. Raman, Bose and Saha were three young
members of the small physics faculty consisting of barely half a dozen faculty
members. Within about one decade, three extraordinary discoveries came from
these young men---Saha ionization equation in 1920, Bose statistics in 1924,
Raman effect in 1928. However, fortunes of Calcutta University quickly got
intertwined with India's freedom struggle led by Mahatma Gandhi exactly at the
same time and the physics group got tragically disrupted. Indian physics never
succeeded in reaching that height again. This paper discusses the difficulties
in reconstructing a critical history of this Calcutta school of physics during
the very short epoch of unmatched brilliance.

The european CanSat competition is a funny way to understand physics. My
students used low budget sensors and data analysis testing a model for
temperature and humidity in low troposphere.

A short introduction to the mathematical methods and technics of differential
algebras and modules adapted to the problems of mathematical and theoretical
physics is presented.

This is the first of three PiTP lectures on complexity and its role in black
hole physics.

Invited contribution to the inaugural issue of {\em Physics Educator.}

We discuss quantum analogues of minimal surfaces in Euclidean spaces and
tori.

A superweapon of modern physics superscribes a wide superset of phenomena,
ranging from supernumerary rainbows to superfluidity and even possible
supermultiplets.

The concept of synthetic dimensions, which has enabled the study of
higher-dimensional physics on lower-dimensional physical structures, has
generated significant recent interest in many branches of science ranging from
ultracold-atomic physics to photonics, since such a concept provides a
versatile platform for realizing effective gauge potentials and novel
topological physics. Previous experiments demonstrating this concept have
augmented the real-space dimensionality by one additional physical synthetic
dimension. Here we endow a single ring resonator with two independent physical
synthetic dimensions. Our system consists of a temporally modulated ring
resonator with spatial coupling between the clockwise and counterclockwise
modes, creating a synthetic Hall ladder along the frequency and pseudospin
degrees of freedom for photons propagating in the ring. We experimentally
observe a wide variety of rich physics, including effective spin-orbit
coupling, magnetic fields, spin-momentum locking, a Meissner-to-vortex phase
transition, and chiral currents, completely in synthetic dimensions. Our
experiments demonstrate that higher-dimensional physics can be studied in
simple systems by leveraging the concept of multiple simultaneous synthetic
dimensions.

One of the biggest revelations of 20th century physics, is virtually unheard
of outside the inner circles of particle physics. This is the gauge theory, the
foundation for how all physical interactions are described and a guiding
principle for almost all work on new physics theories. Is it not our duty as
physicists to try and spread this knowledge to a wider audience?
  Here, two simple gauge theory models are presented that should be
understandable without any advanced mathematics or physics and it is
demonstrated how they can be used to show how gauge symmetries are used to
construct the standard model of particle physics. This is also used to describe
the real reason we need the Higgs field.
  Though these concepts are complicated and abstract, it seems possible for at
least first year students to understand the main ideas. Since they typically
are very interested in cutting edge physics, they do appreciate the effort and
enjoy the more detail insight into modern particle physics. These results are
certainly encouraging more efforts in this direction.

In this note, approaches towards local $p$-adic and global adelic quantum
gates are proposed.

An invited Commentary in: Nature Reviews Physics 3, 7 (2021).

Brief recollections by the author about how he contributed to the production
of the Feynman Lectures in Physics

Brief recollections of how the author interacted with Steve Weinberg over
issues in quantum mevhanics

Recollections by the author about how his interactions with John Wheeler
influenced his career in physics.

Choosing pessimism makes one cynical to and necessitates their destruction of
information.

Brief recollections by the author about how his work with Kip Thorne
influenced his career in physics.

We axiomatize rational massless renormalization group flow as Kan extension.

A brief review of the eigenvalue matrix model integrability and
superintegrability properties, focused on the simplest, still representative,
Gaussian Hermitian case.

This short note describes the concept of guided training of deep neural
networks (DNNs) to learn physically reasonable solutions. DNNs are being widely
used to predict phenomena in physics and mechanics. One of the issues of DNNs
is that their output does not always satisfy physical equations. One approach
to consider physical equations is adding a residual of equations into the loss
function; this is called physics-informed neural network (PINN). One feature of
PINNs is that the physical equations and corresponding residual must be
implemented as part of a neural network model. In addition, the residual does
not always converge to a small value. The proposed model is a physics-guided
generative adversarial network (PG-GAN) that uses a GAN architecture in which
physical equations are used to judge whether the neural network's output is
consistent with physics. The proposed method was applied to a simple problem to
assess its potential usability.

We present several measures of the dynamic coherence of channels and
investigate their properties.

The dissertation brings together approaches across the fields of physics,
critical theory, literary studies, philosophy of physics, sociology of science,
and history of science to synthesize a hybrid approach for instigating more
rigorous and intense cross-disciplinary interrogations between the sciences and
the humanities. There are two levels of conversations going on in the
dissertation; at the first level, the discussion is centered on a critical
historiography and philosophical implications of the discovery Higgs boson in
relation to its position at the intersection of old (current) and the potential
for new possibilities in quantum physics; I then position my findings on the
Higgs boson in connection to the double-slit experiment that represents
foundational inquiries into quantum physics, to demonstrate the bridge between
fundamental physics and high energy particle physics. The conceptualization of
the variants of the double-slit experiment informs the aforementioned critical
comparisons. At the second level of the conversation, theories are produced
from a close study of the physics objects as speculative engine for new
knowledge generation that are then reconceptualized and re-articulated for
extrapolation into the speculative ontology of hard science fiction,
particularly the hard science fiction written with the double intent of
speaking to the science while producing imaginative and socially conscious
science through the literary affordances of science fiction. The works of
science fiction examined here demonstrate the tension between the internal
values of physics in the practice of theory and experiment and questions on
ethics, culture, and morality.

The human mind is constituted by inner, subjective, private, first-person
conscious experiences that cannot be measured with physical devices or observed
from an external, objective, public, third-person perspective. The qualitative,
phenomenal nature of conscious experiences also cannot be communicated to
others in the form of a message composed of classical bits of information.
Because in a classical world everything physical is observable and
communicable, it is a daunting task to explain how an empirically unobservable,
incommunicable consciousness could have any physical substrates such as neurons
composed of biochemical molecules, water, and electrolytes. The challenges
encountered by classical physics are exemplified by a number of thought
experiments including the inverted qualia argument, the private language
argument, the beetle in the box argument and the knowledge argument. These
thought experiments, however, do not imply that our consciousness is
nonphysical and our introspective conscious testimonies are untrustworthy. The
principles of classical physics have been superseded by modern quantum physics,
which contains two fundamentally different kinds of physical objects:
unobservable quantum state vectors, which define what physically exists, and
quantum operators (observables), which define what can physically be observed.
Identifying consciousness with the unobservable quantum information contained
by quantum physical brain states allows for application of quantum information
theorems to resolve possible paradoxes created by the inner privacy of
conscious experiences, and explains how the observable brain is constructed by
accessible bits of classical information that are bound by Holevo's theorem and
extracted from the physically existing quantum brain upon measurement with
physical devices.

One desired outcome of introductory physics instruction is that students will
develop facility with reasoning quantitatively about physical phenomena. Little
research has been done regarding how students develop the algebraic concepts
and skills involved in reasoning productively about physics quantities, which
is different from either understanding of physics concepts or problem-solving
abilities. We introduce the Physics Inventory of Quantitative Literacy (PIQL)
as a tool for measuring quantitative literacy, a foundation of mathematical
reasoning, in the context of introductory physics. We present the development
of the PIQL and evidence of its validity for use in calculus-based introductory
physics courses. Unlike concept inventories, the PIQL is a reasoning inventory,
and can be used to assess reasoning over the span of students' instruction in
introductory physics. Although mathematical reasoning associated with the PIQL
is taught in prior mathematics courses, pre/post test scores reveal that this
reasoning isn't readily used by most students in physics, nor does it develop
as part of physics instruction--even in courses that use high-quality,
research-based curricular materials. As has been the case with many inventories
in physics education, we expect use of the PIQL to support the development of
instructional strategies and materials--in this case, designed to meet the
course objective that all students become quantitatively literate in
introductory physics.

We review how some open issues on Astro Particle physics can be studied by
space born experiments in a complementary way to what is being done at
underground and accelerators facilities

The aim of this paper is to present basic notions of dense matter physics and
some of its applications to geophysics and astronomy.Topics covered in the
paper include:basic observational data,fun- damental ideas of static high
pressure experiments, notions of theoretical dense matter physics, and finally
some details about theoretical work on dense matter physics and its
astronomical applications in Serbia.

Nuclear double beta decay provides an extraordinarily broad potential to
search for beyond Standard Model physics, probing already now the TeV scale, on
which new physics should manifest itself. These possibilities are reviewed
here.

Collider measurements on electroweak physics are summarised. Although the
precision on some observables is very high, no deviation from the Standard
Model of electroweak interactions is observed. The data allow to set stringent
limits on some models for new physics.

Main parameters of a Linac*VLHC based ep collider are estimated and compared
with resently suggested ep collider in the VLHC tunnel.

In these lectures I introduce the basics of HERA physics and give a survey of
the major aspects, discussing in somewhat more depth the subject of low $x$
physics.

I describe the future accelerator facilities that are currently foreseen for
electroweak scale physics, neutrino physics, and nuclear structure. I will
explore the physics justification for these machines, and suggest how the case
for future accelerators can be made.

We review recent result on heavy quark physics at TeV energies focusing on
Run II measurements from the CDF and DO experiments at the Tevatron.

We discuss the current status and the physics prospects at the LHCb detector,
the dedicated B physics detector at the LHC, due to start data taking in 2007.

Top quark physics will be a prominent topic in Standard Model physics at the
LHC. The enormous amount of top quarks expected to be produced will allow to
perform a wide range of precision measurements. An overview of the planned top
physics programme of the ATLAS and CMS experiments at the LHC is given.

Using a common technique for approximating distributions [generalized
functions], we are able to use standard Monte Carlo methods to compute QFT
quantities in Minkowski spacetime, under phase transitions, or when dealing
with coalescing stationary points.

In this talk I would like to discuss two aspects of charm physics. One is to
show that many standard model predictions for rare decay modes (along with $D^0
-\bar{D}^0$ mixing and CP violation) are extremely small thus opening a window
for new physics effects\cite{1}; and the other is to review the expectations
from several plausible and interesting new physics possibilities.

A 15-30 GeV continuous beam electron facility has been proposed by nuclear
physicists in Europe to study how color forces build up hadrons from quarks and
gluons. This project and its physics case are briefly reviewed. The
recommendations of NuPECC, the Nuclear Physics Committee of the European
Science Foundation are presented.

In the last few years, lattice QCD has made a dramatic progress in
understanding the physics of hadrons containing heavy quarks, from the first
principle. This review summarises the major achievements.

I discuss small x physics and its implications at very high energies. At very
high energy the density of partons becomes so large that much of the physics
can be described using weak coupling methods in QCD. This may allow for a
solution to problems such as the asymptotic nature of deep inelastic scattering
at fixed momentum transfer, unitarization, and multiparticle production.

I discuss two aspects of top-quark physics: V_tb and the top-quark mass. The
similarities and differences with bottom and charm physics are emphasized.

1 - Introduction
  2 - Small-Angle Bhabha Scattering and the Luminosity Measurement
  3 - Z^0 Physics
  4 - Fits to Precision Data
  5 - Physics at LEP2
  6 - Conclusions

These lectures provide an introduction to the basic aspects of the Standard
Model, $SU(3)_{C} \times SU(2)_{L} \times U(1)_{Y}$.

The biggest question in beyond the standard model physics is what are the
scales of new physics. Ideas about scales, as well as experimental evidence and
constraints, are surveyed for a variety of possible forms of new physics:
supersymmetry, neutrino masses, unification, and superstring theory.

This is a quick review of CP non-conservation in $B$ physics. Several methods
are described for testing the Kobayashi-Maskawa single phase origin of CP
violation in B decays, pointing out some limitations due to hadronic
uncertainties. A few characteristic signatures of new physics in B decay
asymmetries are listed.

I review the novel results and developments presented at the Third Workshop
on Physics and Detectors for DA$\Phi$NE that deal with hadronic physics. Topics
discussed include: the scalar quark condensate, kaon decays, the sector of
scalar and vector mesons, kaon-nucleon scattering, pion- and kaon-nucleon sigma
terms, and strange nuclear physics.

The state of our understanding of cosmology is reviewed from an astrophysical
cosmologist point of view with a particular emphasis given to recent
observations and their impact. Discussion is then presented on the implications
for particle physics.

A brief review is given of precision electroweak physics, and its
implications for establishing the standard model and constraining the
possibilities for new physics at the TeV scale and beyond.

A general introduction to lattice QCD suitable for graduate students in
experimental and theoretical particle physics. Aimed at those who want to know
how lattice calculations are done, and what the pitfalls are, without having to
do the calculations themselves.

Studies of hadronic final states are entering a new phase where very precise
experimental measurements require better theoretical predictions for a
meaningful comparison. Recent results and future developments are briefly
reviewed both for the experiments and the theory.

We summarize the activities in the spin physics parallel sessions of the
$8^{\rm th}$ conference on intersections between particle and nuclear physics.

Current problems in particle physics are reviewed from the viewpoint of
theories possessing extra spatial dimensions.

I share some personal reflections about the physics potential and the physics
case that can be made for an e^+ e^- high-luminosity B-meson factory, as
presented in my summary talk at the recent "Super B-Factory Workshop" jointly
organized by the BaBar and Belle Collaborations (Honolulu, Hawaii, January
2004). These brief remarks will appear as part of a forthcoming, comprehensive
report on the physics potential of such a ``10^{36} machine''.

The status in electroweak precision physics is reviewed. I present a brief
summary of the latest data, global fit results, a few implications for new
physics, and an outlook.

We summarize the recent results on electroweak physics and physics beyond the
Standard Model that have been presented at the XIV International Workshop on
Deep Inelastic Scattering 2006.

The prospects for electroweak physics at the LHC are reviewed focusing mainly
on precision studies. This includes projections for measurements of the
effective Z pole weak mixing angle, of top quark, W boson, and Higgs scalar
properties, and new physics searches.

The basic ideas and the important role of gauge principles in modern
elementary particle physics are outlined. There are three theoretically
consistent gauge principles in quantum field theory: the spin-1 gauge principle
of electromagnetism and the standard model, the spin-2 gauge principle of
general relativity, and the spin-3/2 gauge principle of supergravity. (Dirac
Prize lecture, November 1993. Two figures are unavailable, but should not be
essential.)

Rigid gauge invariance comprises the symmetry content for physical quantities
in a local gauge theory. Its derivation from BRS invariance is thus crucial for
determining the physical consequences of the symmetry.

The story of (Ward-)Takahashi relations and their impact on physical theory
is reviewed.

General aspects of fundamental physics are considered. We comment the
Wigner's logical scheme and modify it to adjust to modern theoretical physics.
Then, we discuss the role and indicate the place of renormalization group in
the logic of fundamental physics.

We present briefly the deformation philosophy and indicate, with references,
how it was applied to the quantization of Nambu mechanics and to particle
physics in anti De Sitter space.

A discrete field formalism exposes the physical meaning and the origins of
gauge fields and of their symmetries and singularities.

This paper introduces the idea of pseudo-group. Applications of pseudo-groups
in Group Theory and Symmetry Breaking in Particle Physics and Cosmology are
considered.

We present three groups of examples of Wigner Quantum Systems related to the
Lie superalgebras $osp(1/6n)$, $sl(1/3n)$ and $sl(n/3)$ and discuss shortly
their physical features. In the case of $sl(1/3n)$ we indicate that the
underlying geometry is noncommutative.

This paper comprises the written version of the lectures on string theory
delivered at the 31st British Universities Summer School on Theoretical
Elementary Particle Physics which was held in Manchester, England, August 28 -
September 12 2001.

We review various generalizations of supersymmetry and discuss their
relationship. In particular, we show how supersymmetry, parasupersymmetry,
fractional supersymmetry, orthosupersymmetry, and the Z_n-graded topological
symmetries are related.

We argue that the chirotope concept of oriented matroid theory may be found
in different scenarios of physics, including classical mechanics, quantum
mechanics, gauge field theory, p-branes formalism, two time physics and Matrix
theory. Our observations may motivate the interest of possible applications of
matroid theory in physics.

A fluid, like a quark-gluon plasma, may possess degrees of freedom indexed by
a group variable, which retains its identity even in the fluid/continuum
description. Conventional Eulerian fluid mechanics is extended to encompass
this possibility.

It is discussed to which extent the AdS-CFT correspondence is compatible with
fundamental requirements in quantum field theory.

Proposal for contribution to the quantum field theory section in
"Encyclopedia of Mathematical Physics".

In this note, we illustrate how the two-dimensional theory of elasticity
provides a physical example of field theory displaying scale but not conformal
invariance.

The Dirac equation for massive free electrically neutral spin 1/2 particles
in a gravitation field is considered. The secondary quantization procedure is
applied to it and the Hilbert space of multiparticle quantum states is
constructed.

The decay of a soliton in a trapped state inside a well is shown numerically.
Bound states of a kink in an attractive well, both centered and off center are
found. Their stability is studied. Unstable soliton solutions inside a
repulsive barrier are also found.

Quadratic algebras of the type $\lsb Q_0, Q_\pm \rsb$ $=$ $\pm Q_\pm$, $\lsb
Q_+, Q_- \rsb$ $=$ $aQ_0^2 + bQ_0 + c$ are studied using three-mode bosonic
realizations. Matrix representations and single variable differential operator
realizations are obtained. Examples of physical relevance of such algebras are
given.

It is indicated that the definition of physical measures via ``exponential of
minus the action times kinematical measure'' contradicts properties of certain
physical models. In particular, theories describing confinement typically
cannot be gained this way. The results are rigorous within the Ashtekar
approach to gauge field theories.

p-Adic wavelet transform is considered as a possible tool for the description
of hierarchic quantum systems

In these lectures we discuss some elementary concepts in connection with the
theory of symmetric spaces applied to ensembles of random matrices. We review
how the relationship between random matrix theory and symmetric spaces can be
used in some physical contexts.

We provide an brief overview of Tomita-Takesaki modular theory and some of
its applications to mathematical physics. This is an article commissioned by
the Encyclopedia of Mathematical Physics, edited by J.-P. Francoise, G. Naber
and T.S. Tsun, to be published by the Elsevier publishing house.

It is shown that Von Neumann Uniqueness Theorem doesn't hold in Hyperbolic
Quantum Mechanics

We consider the fractional generalization of nonholonomic constraints defined
by equations with fractional derivatives and provide some examples. The
corresponding equations of motion are derived using variational principle.

We consider a fractional generalization of gradient systems. We use
differential forms and exterior derivatives of fractional orders. Examples of
fractional gradient systems are considered. We describe the stationary states
of these systems.

The COSY accelerator in J\"{u}lich is presented together with its internal
and external detectors. The physics program performed recently is discussed
with emphasis on strangeness physics and precision experiments.

Various applications of quantum algebraic techniques in nuclear structure
physics and molecular physics are briefly reviewed. Contains 81 references.

Paul A. M. Dirac was a great physicist. Wigner used to call him ``my famous
brother-in-law''. How did they become brothers-in-law? Did these two great
physicists have the same view toward physics?

In this series of eight papers we present the applications of methods from
wavelet analysis to polynomial approximations for a number of accelerator
physics problems. In this part we consider application of FWT to metaplectic
representation(quantum and chaotical problems) and quasiclassics.

In this series of eight papers we present the applications of methods from
wavelet analysis to polynomial approximations for a number of accelerator
physics problems. In this part we consider variational wavelet approach for
loops, invariant bases on semidirect product, KAM calculation via FWT.

The principle which allows to construct new physical theories on the basis of
classical mechanics by reduction of the number of its axiom without engaging
new postulates is formulated. The arising incompleteness of theory manifests
itself in terms of theoretically undefinable fundamental physical constants
$\hbar$ and c. As an example we built up a parametric generalization of
relativistic theory, where the Hubble Law and the dependence of light velocity
on time are obtained.

We present the application of variational-wavelet analysis to
numerical/analytical calculations of Wigner functions in (nonlinear)
quasiclassical beam dynamics problems. (Naive) deformation quantization and
multiresolution representations are the key points.

It has been commonly argued, on the basis of Goedel's theorem and related
mathematical results, that true artificial intelligence cannot exist. Penrose
has further deduced from the existence of human intelligence that fundamental
changes in physical theories are needed. I provide an elementary demonstration
that these deductions are mistaken.

The general status of neutrino physics are given. The history of the
neutrino, starting from Pauli and Fermi, is presented. The phenomenological V-A
theory of the weak interaction and the unified theory of the weak and
electromagnetic interactions, the so-called Standard Model, are discussed. The
problems of of neutrino masses, neutrino mixing, and neutrino oscillations are
discussed in some details.

John Bell's investigations in foundations of quantum mechanics, particle
physics, and quantum field theory are recalled.

A core level of basic information for physics is identified, based on an
analysis of the characteristics of the parameters space, time, mass and charge.
At this level, it is found that certain symmetries operate, which can be used
to explain certain physical facts and even to derive new mathematical theorems.
Applications are made to classical mechanics, electromagnetic theory and
quantum mechanics.

A brief history is given of the factor 2, starting in the most elementary
considerations of geometry and kinematics of uniform acceleration, and moving
to relativity, quantum mechanics and particle physics. The basic argument is
that in all the significant cases in which the factor 2 or 1/2 occurs in
fundamental physics, whether classical, quantum or relativistic, the same
physical operation is taking place.

Differential transfer relations of flux density, general physics quantities'
and its corresponding energy's, between time domains of source and observer are
derived from conservative rule of various physical quantities and time function
between the two domains. In addition, integrated form of the relations are
inferred and examples of potential application are illustrated and discussed.

This encyclopedia article addresses questions like the following. How does
the Sun shine? Does the neutrino have a mass? Are there weak interactions
beyond those described by the standard model of particle physics?

In the spirit of the International Year of Physics 2005 the author advices
the replacement of the teaching methods based on verbal explanations and to
perform a number of tasks following a given recipe by procedures that actively
involve the students in the physics discovery process.

In order to understand the physics phenomea on the fundamental aspects, the
software simulations are a good exercise to succed in this way. Some work of
heat transport and molecular physics laboratory are studied in a comparative
mode experiments and software applications. The main ojbects structure ans some
program interfaces are presented.

We review an emerging body of work by physicists addressing questions of
economic organization and function. We suggest that, beyond simply employing
models familiar from physics to economic observables, remarkable regularities
in economic data may suggest parts of social order that can usefully be
incorporated into, and in turn can broaden, the conceptual structure of
physics.

A non technical introduction to the concept of renormalization is given, with
an emphasis on the energy scale dependence in the description of a physical
system. We first describe the idea of scale dependence in the study of a
ferromagnetic phase transition, and then show how similar ideas appear in
Particle Physics. This short review is written for non-particle physicists
and/or students aiming at studying Particle Physics.

We discuss the tightly bound (hydrino) solution of the Klein-Gordon equation
for the Coulomb potential in 3 dimensions. We show that a similarly tightly
bound state occurs for the Dirac equation in 2 dimensions. These states are
unphysical since they disappear if the nuclear charge distribution is taken to
have an arbitrarily small but non-zero radius.

The hypothesis of existence of off-site continuums is investigated.
Principles of the physical description are formulated. The structure of
off-site continuums and opportunities of observation of off-site physical
objects from the continuum of the observer is investigated. There are found
conformities between properties of the considered objects with properties of
known physical objects and fundamental interactions both in micro-, and
macro-scales.

This set of lecture notes gives an introduction to holomorphic function
spaces as used in mathematical physics. The emphasis is on the Segal-Bargmann
space and the canonical commutation relations. Later sections describe more
advanced topics such as the Segal-Bargmann transform for compact Lie groups and
the infinite-dimensional theory.

We define a category with as objects operational resolutions and with as
morphisms - not necessarily deterministic - state transitions. We study
connections with closure spaces and join-complete lattices and sketch physical
applications related to evolution and compoundness. An appendix with
preliminaries on quantaloids is included.

We propose a general construction of an observable measuring the time of
occurence of an effect in quantum theory. Time delay in potential scattering is
computed as a straightforward application.

Lectures on classical and quantum cryptography. Contents: Private key
cryptosystems. Elements of number theory. Public key cryptography and RSA
cryptosystem. Shannon`s entropy and mutual information. Entropic uncertainty
relations. The no cloning theorem. The BB84 quantum cryptographic protocol.
Security proofs. Bell`s theorem. The EPRBE quantum cryptographic protocol.

We present a brief review of physical problems leading to indefinite Hilbert
spaces and non-hermitian Hamiltonians. With the exception of pseudo-Riemannian
manifolds in GR, the problem of a consistent physical interpretation of these
structures still waits to be faced.
  In print in Rev. Mex. Fis.

An extensive number of numerical computations of energy 1/$N$ series using a
recursive Taylor series method are presented in this paper. The series are
computed to a high order of approximation and their behaviour on increasing the
order of approximation is examined.

We compare the geometrical and physical properties of the maths-type coherent
states for $q>1$ with those of the same for $0 < q < 1$.

It is shown how to derive fractional supersymmetric quantum mechanics of
order k as a superposition of k-1 copies of ordinary supersymmetric quantum
mechanics.

This Dissertation collects my results on the interpretation,
characterization, quantification and application of bipartite and multipartite
entanglement in Gaussian states of continuous variable systems.

It is argued that demanding for similar characters between the coordinates of
space-time and the fields would sound that non-Abelian gauge theories might be
formulated most naturally based on fields depending on matrix coordinates.

In this article, we examine specific scenes from popular action and sci-fi
movies and show how they blatantly break the laws of physics, all in the name
of entertainment, but coincidentally contributing to science illiteracy.

We summarize the main results of the spin physics Working Group Session of
DIS 2007, the 15th International Workshop on ``Deep-Inelastic Scattering and
Related Subjects''.

MOND is a phenomenological theory with no apparent physical justification
which seems to undermine some of the basic principles that underpin established
theoretical physics. It is nevertheless remarkably successful over its sphere
of application and this suggests MOND may have some physical basis. It is shown
here that two simple axioms pertaining to fundamental principles will reproduce
the characteristic behaviour of MOND, though the axioms are in conflict with
general relativistic cosmology.

This article reviews the physics case for the ILC. Baseline running at 500
GeV as well as possible upgrades and options are discussed. The opportunities
on Standard Model physics, Higgs physics, Supersymmetry and alternative
theories beyond the Standard Model are described.

The LHC will soon provide proton-proton collisions at the unprecedented
center of mass energy, $\sqrt{s}=$14 TeV. This not only allows us to probe new
regions of high-$p_T$ physics, but also low-$x$ and forward physics. A
selection of potential measurements are described to outline the prospects for
low-$x$ and forward physics in the ATLAS, CMS, TOTEM, and LHCf experiments.

A survey of algebraic approaches to various problems in nuclear physics is
given. Examples are chosen from pairing of many-nucleon systems, nuclear
structure, fusion reactions below the Coulomb barrier, and supernova neutrino
physics to illustrate the utility of group-theoretical and related algebraic
methods in nuclear physics.

We review some aspects of neutrino physics and CP violation both in the quark
and lepton sectors.

We discuss several ways of illustrating fundamental concepts in statistical
and thermal physics by considering various models and algorithms. We emphasize
the importance of replacing students' incomplete mental images by models that
are physically accurate. In some cases it is sufficient to discuss the results
of an algorithm or the behavior of a model rather than having students write a
program.

This article presents some computations for a new topological invariant for
foliations introduced some years ago by the author using techniques from
noncommutative geometry, in particular the pairing between K-Theory and cyclic
cohomology. The motivation came from theoretical physics, more specifically
from flat vector bundles, in physics terminology from potentials which are pure
gauge.

I will argue that the same kind of reasoning, which led us to predict the
opening of a new chapter in hadron physics, may shed some light on the
existence of new physics at the as yet unexplored energy scales of LHC.

I report on recent progress and future prospects for lattice QCD calculations
relevant for flavour physics and CP violation. I will focus on lattice studies
that incorporate realistic vacuum polarization effects, i.e., with n_f=2+1 sea
quarks.

We describe the KLOE detector at DAFNE, and its physics program. The impact
of our results on flavor and hadron physics to date, as well as an outlook for
further improvement in the near future, are discussed.

Relativistic complex Burgers-Schr\"odinger and Nonlinear Schr\"odinger
equations are constructed. In the non-relativistic limit they reduce to the
standard Burgers and NLS equations respectively and are integrable at any order
of relativistic corrections.

The physics case for studying top-quark physics at the International Linear
Collider is well established. This summary places in context the top-quark
physics goals, examines the current state-of-the art in understanding of the
top-quark mass, and identifies some areas in which the study of the top-quark
mass enhances our understanding of new techniques.

In a discrete form of the second quantization, the gauge independencies of
all the physical states including vacuum in QED are restudied through a new
approach. We also discuss an interesting phenomenon attributed to vacuum effect
and come up with a procedure to produce general physical states.

New KLOE results on scalar mesons, $\gamma\gamma$ physics and $\eta$ physics
are presented.

In this paper the contribution of Bruno Ponrecoevo will be illustrated
Special emphasis will be given to oscillations physics that he was the first to
propose.

In rather general terms the long term perspective of double beta decay is
discussed. All important experimental parameters are investigated as well as
the status of nuclear matrix element issues. The link with other neutrino
physics results and options to disentangle the underlying physics process are
presented.

These proceedings are a summary of four lectures given at the Theoretical
Advanced Study Institute in Elementary Particle Physics (TASI) in 2009. These
lectures provide a basic introduction to experimental particle physics and the
Large Hadron Collider experiments at CERN, with many general examples from the
(still running) Fermilab Tevatron.

This set of lectures covers the very basics of flavor physics and are aimed
to be an entry point to the subject. A lot of problems are provided in the hope
of making the manuscript a self study guide.

We describe the ATLAS Forward Physics Program at low luminosity using the
rapidity gap method and a dedicated detector called ALFA to tag the protons. We
also describe the physics topics of the ATLAS Forward Physics Project at high
instantaneous luminosity.

We review recent progress in understanding the physical meaning of quantum
graph models through analysis of their vertex coupling approximations.

We illustrate some tests which may shed light on physics beyond the Standard
Model. Some of them are especially sensitive to possible signals of new
physics.

The bow is one of the earliest complex machines, a prime example of the
storage and transfer of energy. The physics of the bow illuminates compromises
and design choices made in Asian military archery.

While B0 and B+ mesons are well studied, mainly by the B factories, less is
known about Bs mesons. Specifically large new physics effects may still be
present in the Bs system. This unexplored region is studied by the CDF, D0, and
Belle experiments. In this article their recent measurements on the Bs physics
sector are presented.

There are many varied programs of education and outreach in particle physics.
This report for the Division of Particles and Fields of the American Physical
Society 2001 meeting reviews the impact of these programs in general, and also
gives several examples of ongoing programs with a primary focus on those in the
US.

We report recent work on the interplay of collider and flavour physics
regarding the search for physics beyond the Standard Model.

Making the whole determinant of the CKM matrix V real, the imaginary part of
any one term of the determinant of V (e. g. |Im V_{31}V_{22}V_{13}|) is the
Jarlskog determinant J. We also point out that the maximality of the weak CP
violation is a physical statement

Recent soft physics results from collisions of ultra-relativistic nuclei at
Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider (RHIC) operating at Brookhaven National
Laboratory (BNL) are reviewed. Topics discussed cover the Beam Energy Scan
program with some emphasis on anisotropic particle flow.

On fractals, spectral functions such as heat kernels and zeta functions
exhibit novel features, very different from their behaviour on regular smooth
manifolds, and these can have important physical consequences for both
classical and quantum physics in systems having fractal properties.

This paper considers the relevance of the concepts of observability and
computability in physical theory. Observability is related to verifiability
which is essential for effective computing and as physical systems are
computational systems it is important even where explicit computation is not
the goal. Specifically, we examine two problems: observability and
computability for quantum computing, and remote measurement of time and
frequency.

This is an overview of B physics that can be done at the LHC with the purpose
of searching for new physics.

An almost model-independent parametrization for the ratio of the total
hadronic cross section to elastic slope is discussed. Its applicability in
studies of asymptotia and analyses of extensive air shower in cosmic-ray
physics is also outlined.

We briefly review recent experiments in atomic, molecular, and optical
physics using precision measurements to search for physics beyond the Standard
Model. We consider three main categories of experiments: searches for changes
in fundamental constants, measurements of the anomalous magnetic moment of the
electron, and searches for an electric dipole moment of the electron.

The SuperB experiment at the Cabibbo Laboratory will provide new
possibilities to study the physics of charm. The potential physics reach of the
experiment when performing studies of rare decays, mixing and CP violation in
charm decays is presented here and the implications of such measurements for
new physics scenarios is discussed.

Highlights of the contributions of Brookhaven National Laboratory to
Subnuclear Physics are presented together with recent highlights from RHIC

These lecture notes recall the conceptual developments which led from the
discovery of the neutron to our present understanding of strong interaction
physics.

The construction of the information capacity for the vector position
parameter in the Minkowskian space-time is presented. This lays the statistical
foundations of the kinematical term of the Lagrangian of the physical action
for many field theory models, derived by the extremal physical information
method of Frieden and Soffer.

Recent progress in Lattice QCD is highlighted. After a brief introduction to
the methodology of lattice computations the presentation focuses on three main
topics: Hadron Spectroscopy, Hadron Structure and Lattice Flavor Physics. In
each case a summary of recent computations of selected quantities is provided.

Von Neumann's uniqueness theorem is extended to a special class of canonical
commutation relations, namely the anti-Fock representations, which are realized
on a Krein space.

A detailed study of the classical and quantum mechanics of a free particle on
a double cone and the particle bounded to its tip by the harmonic oscillator
potential is presented.

In this essay I develop quantum contextuality as a potential candidate for
Wheeler's universal regulating principle, arguing -- \textit{contrary} to
Wheeler -- that this ultimately implies that `bit' comes from `it.' In the
process I develop a formal definition of physical determinism in the languages
of domain theory and category theory.

We shortly outline the principal results concerning the
reparametrization-invariant world-volume Lagrangian formulation of lightlike
brane dynamics and its impact as a source for gravity and (nonlinear)
electromagnetism in black hole and wormhole physics.

In these lectures we review our present understanding of the fractal
structure of two-dimensional Euclidean quantum gravity coupled to matter.

A perspective on charm physics, emphasizing recent developments, future
prospects, and the interplay with lattice QCD.

This article addresses the question of when physical laws and their
consequences can be computed. If a physical system is capable of universal
computation, then its energy gap can't be computed. At an even more fundamental
level, the most concise, simply applicable formulation of the underlying laws
of physics is uncomputable. That is, physicists are in the same boat as
mathematicians: many quantities of interest can be computed, but not all.

In this note we show how to obtain the projection matrix for the $E_7 \subset
C_{28}$ chain and we tabulate some decompositions of the symplectic algebra
$C_{28}$ representations into irreps of the $E_7$ subalgebra that are important
for various physical models.

In this first paper, we briefly retrace some historical pathways of modern
physics of 20th Century. In particular, we have considered some moments of
cosmic ray physics and, above all, the early theoretical and experimental bases
which will lead to the first exact measurements of the anomalous magnetic
moment of the muon, one of the main high precision tests of QED.

We present a vision for the next decade of hadron physics in which the
central question being addressed is how one might win new physical insight into
the way hadronic systems work. The topics addressed include the relevance of
model building, the role of spontaneously broken chiral symmetry, spectroscopy,
form factors and physics in the deep inelastic regime.

We study a generalized scheme of Swanson Hamiltonian from a second-derivative
pseudosupersymmetric approach. We discuss plausible choices of the underlying
quasi-Hamiltonian and consider the viability of applications to systems like
the isotonic oscillator and CPRS potential.

We use self-reported data from 2011--2014 and determine the academic profile
of accepted students at physics graduate programs in the United States. We
analyze the accepted students' grade point averages and physics Graduate Record
Examination (GRE) scores. We also compare the physics GRE scores of accepted
students to their grade point averages.

The theory of causal fermion systems is an approach to describe fundamental
physics. We here introduce the mathematical framework and give an overview of
the objectives and current results.

The GNS representation construction is considered in a general case of
topological involutive algebras of quantum systems, including quantum fields,
and inequivalent state spaces of these systems are characterized. We aim to
show that, from the physical viewpoint, they can be treated as classical fields
by analogy with a Higgs vacuum field.

String theory is changing the relationship between mathematics and physics.
The central role is played by the phenomenon of duality, which is intrinsic to
quantum physics and abundant in string theory.

This is basically the update of [arXiv:0809.1869], a review on charmed baryon
physics around 2007. Topics of this review include the spectroscopy, strong
decays, lifetimes, nonleptonic and semileptonic weak decays, and
electromagnetic decays of charmed baryons.

In this talk I summarize the physics case of the International Linear
Collider (ILC) focusing on its potential towards discovery, discrimation or
disentanglement of new physics beyond the Standard Model (BSM).

Cosmology is becoming an important tool to test particle physics models. We
provide an overview of the standard model of cosmology with an emphasis on the
observations relevant for testing fundamental physics.

I construct a quantum field theory model with discrete scale invariance at
tree level. The model has some unusual mathematical properties (such as the
appearance of $q$-hypergeometric series) and may possibly have some interesting
physical properties as well. In this note, I explore some possible physics that
could be regarded as a violation of standard effective field theory ideas.

A personal perspective on the future challenges of research in particle
physics is presented with emphasis on the role of DIS physics in this
endeavour.

Top quark physics measurements performed using data from the ATLAS detector
at the LHC rely on efficient reconstruction and precise calibration of leptons,
jets and missing transverse energy. A review of the techniques used to
reconstruct such objects is given, with an emphasis on the uncertainties
achieved for energy calibration and efficiency measurements, illustrated with
their impact on key top quark physics results.

These lecture notes discuss methods, recent results and future prospects in
proton-proton physics at the Large Hadron Collider.

In the calculation of quantum-mechanical singular-potential scattering, one
encounters divergence. We suggest three renormalization schemes, dimensional
renormalization, analytic continuation approach, and minimal-subtraction scheme
to remove the divergence.

A personal recollection of events that preceded the construction of
Supergravity and of some subsequent developments.

The physical constructs underlying the properties of quantum mechanics are
explored. Arguments are given that the particle wave function as well as photon
and phonon quanta must derive from a more fundamental physical construct that
has not yet been identified. An approach to identifying the construct is
discussed and a specific construct is proposed and explained.

This is an invited review of Jean Bricmont's book "Making Sense of Quantum
Mechanics."

I discuss gauge and global symmetries in particle physics, condensed matter
physics, and quantum gravity. In a modern understanding, global symmetries are
approximate and gauge symmetries may be emergent. (Based on a lecture at the
April, 2016 meeting of the American Physical Society in Salt Lake City, Utah.)

In an imaginary conversation with Guido Altarelli, I express my views on the
status of particle physics beyond the Standard Model and its future prospects.

We derive a generalized unitarity relation for an arbitrary linear scattering
system that may violate unitarity, time-reversal invariance, ${\cal
PT}$-symmetry, and transmission reciprocity.

We critically analyze the rationale of arguments from finetuning and
naturalness in particle physics and cosmology. Some other numerological
coincidences are also discussed.

In this paper we use a simple discrete model for Slinky to explore some of
its static properties. We derive some relations for vertically and U-shaped
suspended Slinkies, based on which, some demonstrations are proposed that can
be simply done in freshmen physics classes.

Exciting scientific results such as the discovery of the Higgs boson offer a
great opportunity to engage young people in particle physics. International
Particle Physics Masterclasses highlight how high school students across the
world can be exposed to real data from CERN's LHC accelerator in a stimulating
and productive atmosphere in just a single day.

Continuing the analysis undertaken in previous articles, we discuss some
features of non-self-adjoint operators and sesquilinear forms which are defined
starting from two biorthogonal families of vectors, like the so-called
generalized Riesz systems, enjoying certain properties. In particular we
discuss what happens when they forms two $\D$-quasi bases.

A formulation of quaternionic quantum mechanics ($\mathbb{H}$QM) is presented
in terms of a real Hilbert space. Using a physically motivated scalar product,
we prove the spectral theorem and obtain a novel quaternionic Fourier series.
After a brief discussion on unitary operators in this formalism, we conclude
that this quantum theory is indeed consistent, and can be a valuable tool in
the search for new physics.

Cyberspace is being more and more tightly linked to the physical space and
socioeconomic space to emerge a cyber-physical-socioeconomic space, where
humans, machines and physical objects in the natural environment interact with
each other, efficiently share resources and co-evolve to emerge
cyber-physical-social patterns from different spaces. The complex space
provides a new reality for experiencing, understanding, thinking and making
intelligent decisions. Various links, mappings, and flows bridge and extend the
existing understandings to render Cyber-Physical-Socioeconomic Intelligence.

We summarize recent results for charm physics. These results span several
categories: charm mixing, indirect (time-dependent) CP violation, direct
(time-integrated) CP violation, T violation, semileptonic and leptonic decays,
and decays of charm baryons.

The unexpected absence of unambiguous signals of New Physics at the TeV scale
at the Large Hadron Collider puts today flavour physics at the forefront. In
particular rare decays of b-hadrons represent a unique probe to challenge the
Standard Model paradigm and test models of New Physics at a scale much higher
than that accessible by direct searches. This article reviews the status of the
field.

Temperature and polarization variations across the microwave sky include the
fingerprints of quantum fluctuations in the early universe. They may soon
reveal physics at unprecedented energy scales.

We review highlights of recent results on the hadron spectrum and flavor
physics from lattice QCD. We also discuss recent rapid progress on the muon
anomalous magnetic moment.

We discuss the grounded, equipotential ellipse in two-dimensional
electrostatics to illustrate different ways of extending the domain of the
potential and placing image charges such that homogeneous boundary conditions
are satisfied. In particular, we compare and contrast the Kelvin and Sommerfeld
image methods.

Motivated by the absence of dark matter signal in dark matter direct
detection experiments and new physics signal at LHC, we study how to hear the
echoes of the new physics, especially the dark matter and baryogenesis by new
approaches, such as the gravitational wave experiments.

An outline of the physics reasons to pursue a future programme in high-energy
colliders is presented.

A summary of the recent results from CERN Yellow Report on the CLIC potential
for new physics is presented, with emphasis on the direct search for new
physics scenarios motivated by the open issues of the Standard Model.

Between 1974 and 1975, Stephen Hawking revolutionized the world of physics by
proposing that black holes have temperature, entropy, and evaporate gradually.
The objective of this article is to offer a brief and updated introduction to
these three remarkable results, employing only high school algebra and
elementary physics. This article may be useful as pedagogical material in an
introductory undergraduate physics course.

The rich molecular structures of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons --
essentially planar flakes of fused benzene rings -- and their fullerene cousins
are revealed through their vibrational and electronic spectra.

The 2019 European Physical Society Prize for High Energy and Particle Physics
was awarded to the CDF and D0 collaborations for "the discovery of the top
quark and the detailed measurement of its properties". This paper is based upon
the talk accepting the prize on behalf of the D0 Collaboration.

In these proceedings we provide a brief overview of the status of flavour
physics, with focus on opportunities to discover New Physics in
flavour-violating decays at current and future colliders.

We review the physics of low-energy antiprotons, and its link with the
nuclear forces. This includes: antinucleon scattering on nucleons and nuclei,
antiprotonic atoms and antinucleon-nucleon annihilation into mesons.

Roughly speaking, Buckingham's $\Pi$-Theorem provides a method to "guess" the
structure of physical formulas simply by studying the dimensions (the physical
units) of the involved quantities. Here we will prove a quantitative version of
Buckingham's Theorem, which is "purely mathematical" in the sense that it does
make any explicit reference to physical units.

Extended abstract of "Algebraic approach to position-dependent mass systems
in both classical and quantum pictures", a series of three lectures delivered
by the author in the VIII School on Geometry and Physics, 24 June-8 June 2019,
organized by the Department of Mathematical Physics of the University of
Bialystok, in Bialowieza, Poland (http://wgmp.uwb.edu.pl/wgmp38/part_s.html)

Ten years into the LHC physics programme, I reflect on the vast amount of
extraordinary results that have emerged so far.

Skyrmions were originally introduced in Particle Physics as a possible
mechanism to explain the stability of particles. Lately the concept has been
applied in Condensed Matter Physics to describe the newly discovered
topologically protected magnetic configurations called the magnetic Skyrmions.
This elementary review introduces the concept at a level suitable for beginning
students of Physics.

The mathematical picture language project that we began in 2016 has already
yielded interesting results. We also point out areas of mathematics and physics
where we hope that it will prove useful in the future.

A brief description of the relations between the factorization method in
quantum mechanics, self-similar potentials, integrable systems and the theory
of special functions is given. New coherent states of the harmonic oscillator
related to the Fourier transformation are constructed.

The concept of spontaneous symmetry breaking (SSB) generally lacks a simple
and intuitive introduction in the literature. This gap is filled by defining
SSB in a universal context beyond its usual applications in physics and by
discussing some very simple, but stunning examples of the phenomenon.

We formulate a problem on diamagnetic levitation, which may be suitable for
specialized high-school or first-year students in physical sciences. We guide
the students, step-by-step, through the physics of diamagnetic levitation. The
calculations are simplified by assuming a ring-shaped geometry of the
diamagnetic object residing above a magnetic dipole. This problem was
originally intended for the International Physics Olympiad 2016 (IPHO 2016),
but was finally deemed surplus and therefore not set.

We identify infinite classes of potentials for which the Coleman instantons
do not exist. For these potentials, the decay of a false vacuum must be
described by the new instantons introduced in [7,8].

We find new families of shape invariant potentials depending on n>=1
parameters subject to translation by the inclusion of non-trivial invariants.
New dependencies of the spectra are found, and it opens the door to the
engineering of physical quantities in a novel way. A number of examples are
explicitly constructed.

A. Dragan and A. Ekert [New Journal of Physics, 22(3), p.033038.] have
recently claimed that fundamental properties of quantum physics (e.g.
fundamental indeterminism and the principle of superposition) can be derived
solely from relativistic considerations, if one takes as physically meaningful
superluminal reference frames. In this comment we show that their arguments are
flawed and their claims therefore unwarranted.

This Resource Letter provides a guide to the literature on teaching
experimental physics using sensors in tablets, smartphones, and some
specialized devices. After a general discussion of the hardware (sensors) and
the software (apps), we present resources for experiments using mobile-device
sensors in many areas of physics education: mechanics, oscillations and waves,
optics, electromagnetism, matter, modern physics, and astronomy.

Lecture notes to a one-term course on operator algebras and their application
in physics. Very brief and basic introduction to the subject of Banach- and
C-star algebras complemented with their appearance in physics. The course is
intended at mathematics students in their master program with a basic knowledge
of functional analysis and some interest in the foundations of quantum
mechanics.

We attempt to give a broad conceptual overview of modern quantum field
theory, highlighting important recent developments. This report serves as the
TF03 topical group summary for Snowmass 2021.

Following the method of induced group representations of Wigner-Mackay, the
explicit construction of all the unitary irreducible representations of the
discrete finite Heisenberg-Weyl group $HW_{2^s}$ over the discrete phase space
lattice $Z_{2^s}$ $\otimes$ $Z_{2^s}$ is presented. We explicitly determine
their characters and their fusion rules. We discuss possible physical
applications for finite quantum mechanics and quantum computation.

We present the status of the research in the field of atomic and molecular
physics in Africa as well as some challenges hindering the efforts being made
by the African scientists. We further report the discussions and progress of
the African Strategy for Fundamental and Applied Physics (ASFAP) working group
on Atomic and Molecular physics with the view of providing the continent
research direction for next decade.

A recent Nature Physics editorial (Nat. Phys. (2022) 18, 961) falsely claims
``any theory that uses hidden variables still requires non-local physics.'' We
correct this claim and explain why it is important to get this right.

I point out and diagnose an error in a figure in a textbook on classical
physics. The error helps to illustrate a pitfall encountered when dealing with
the shapes of objects, and perhaps also reflects general cultural attitudes in
physics. Another, less interesting, error is noted in passing.

In this short paper, the results of the paper by Drab et al. (Eur. Phys. J. E
(2022) 45:79) are described in the framework of wave mechanics and mathematical
physics based on common understandings. The attention is focused on properties
of Boussinesq-type equations, solitons, and peakons. These concepts are
supported by several experimental observations.

Novel geometries can be created by coupling internal states of atoms or
molecules to mimic movement in real-space

The quantum superposition principle is reconsidered based on adiabatic
theorem of quantum mechanics, nonadiabatic dressed states and experimental
evidence. The physical mechanism and physical properties of the quantum
superposition are revealed.

Astrophysical neutrinos allow us to access energies and baselines that cannot
be reached by human-made accelerators, offering unique probes of new physics
phenomena. This thesis aims to address the challenges currently facing searches
for Beyond Standard Model (BSM) physics in the high-energy universe using
astrophysical neutrinos, particularly in the contexts of flavor measurements
and connections with dark matter.

We argue that the well-known beta functions of quadratic gravity do not
correspond to the physical dependence of scattering amplitudes on external
momenta, and derive the correct physical beta functions. Asymptotic freedom
turns out to be compatible with the absence of tachyons.

We study semiflows generated via impulsive perturbations of Lorenz flows. We
prove that such semiflows admit a finite number of physical measures. Moreover,
if the impulsive perturbation is small enough, we show that the physical
measures of the semiflows are close, in the weak* topology, to the unique
physical measure of the Lorenz flow. A similar conclusion holds for the
entropies associated with the physical measures.

R\'enyi entropy is a one-parameter generalization of Shannon entropy, which
has been used in various fields of physics. Despite its wide applicability, the
physical interpretations of the R\'enyi entropy are not widely known. In this
paper, we discuss some basic properties of the R\'enyi entropy relevant to
physics, in particular statistical mechanics, and its physical interpretations
using free energy, replicas, work, and large deviation.

This invited essay belongs to a series considering highly influential
articles published by the International Journal of Theoretical Physics. In this
paper, we highlight the physical content and the profound consequences of
Richard Feynman's 1982 paper on "Simulating Physics with Computers".

Exotic physics typically encompasses two categories of exotic particles:
``dark" particles beyond the standard model and exotic hadrons within the
extended standard model. We present a summary of the recent results on exotic
particles at BESIII, which could play a crucial role in the study of exotic
physics.

Charm CP violation is a unique gate to the physics of up-type quarks and
allows searches for physics beyond the Standard Model in new and exciting ways,
complementary to kaon and $b$ decays. We review recent advances, focusing on
symmetry-based methods and providing an outlook on the next challenges at the
intensity frontier of charm physics.

In this first of two papers, strong limits on the accuracy of physical
computation are established. First it is proven that there cannot be a physical
computer C to which one can pose any and all computational tasks concerning the
physical universe. Next it is proven that no physical computer C can correctly
carry out any computational task in the subset of such tasks that can be posed
to C. As a particular example, this means that there cannot be a physical
computer that can, for any physical system external to that computer, take the
specification of that external system's state as input and then correctly
predict its future state before that future state actually occurs. The results
also mean that there cannot exist an infallible, general-purpose observation
apparatus, and that there cannot be an infallible, general-purpose control
apparatus. These results do not rely on systems that are infinite, and/or
non-classical, and/or obey chaotic dynamics. They also hold even if one uses an
infinitely fast, infinitely dense computer, with computational powers greater
than that of a Turing Machine.

Constructing the Theory of Everything (TOE) is an elusive goal of today's
physics. Goedel's incompleteness theorem seems to forbid physics
axiomatization, a necessary part of the TOE. The purpose of this contribution
is to show how physics axiomatization can be achieved guided by a new heuristic
rule. This will open up new roads into constructing the ultimate theory of
everything. Three physical principles will be identified from the heuristic
rule and they in turn will generate uniqueness results of various technical
strengths regarding space, time, non-relativistic and relativistic quantum
mechanics, electroweak symmetry and the dimensionality of space-time. The hope
is that the strong force and the Standard Model axiomatizations are not too far
out. Quantum gravity and cosmology are harder problems and maybe new approaches
are needed. However, complete physics axiomatization seems to be an achievable
goal, no longer part of philosophical discussions, but subject to rigorous
mathematical proofs.

We propose a new interpretation of objective deterministic chances in
statistical physics based on physical computational complexity. This notion
applies to a single physical system (be it an experimental set--up in the lab,
or a subsystem of the universe), and quantifies (1) the difficulty to realize a
physical state given another, (2) the `distance' (in terms of physical
resources) of a physical state from another, and (3) the size of the set of
time--complexity functions that are compatible with the physical resources
required to reach a physical state from another. This view (a) exorcises
"ignorance" from statistical physics, and (b) underlies a new interpretation to
non--relativistic quantum mechanics.

SuperB is a next generation high luminosity $e^+e^-$ collider that will be
built at the Cabibbo Laboratory, Tor Vergata, in Italy. The physics goals of
this experiment are to search for signs of physics beyond the Standard Model
through precision studies of rare or forbidden processes. While the name
suggests that $B$ physics is the main goal, this experiment is a Super Flavour
Factory, and precision measurements of $B_{u,d,s}$, $D$, $\tau$, $\Upsilon$,
and $\psi(3770)$ decays as well as spectroscopy and exotica searches form part
of a broad physics programme. In addition to searching for new physics (NP) in
the form of heavy particles, or violations of laws of physics, data from SuperB
will be able to perform precision tests of the Standard Model. I will briefly
review of some highlights of the SuperB physics programme.

Since 2006, the Pigelleto's Summer School of Physics is an important
appointment for orienting students toward physics. It is organized as a full
immersion school on actual topics in physics or in fields rarely pursued in
high school, i.e. quantum mechanics, new materials, energy resources. The
students, usually forty, are engaged in many activities in laboratory and
forced to become active participants. Furthermore, they are encouraged in
cooperating in small groups in order to present and share the achieved results.
In the last years, the school became a training opportunity for younger
teachers which are involved in programming and realization of selected
activities. The laboratory activities with students are usually supervised by a
young and an expert teacher in order to fix the correct methodology.

It is generally believed that physical laws, reflecting an inherent order in
the universe, are ordained by nature. However, in modern physics the observer
plays a central role raising questions about how an observer-centric physics
can result in laws apparently worthy of a universal nature-centric physics.
Over the last decade, we have found that the consistent apt quantification of
algebraic and order-theoretic structures results in calculi that possess
constraint equations taking the form of what are often considered to be
physical laws. I review recent derivations of the formal relations among
relevant variables central to special relativity, probability theory and
quantum mechanics in this context by considering a problem where two observers
form consistent descriptions of and make optimal inferences about a free
particle that simply influences them. I show that this approach to describing
such a particle based only on available information leads to the mathematics of
relativistic quantum mechanics as well as a description of a free particle that
reproduces many of the basic properties of a fermion. The result is an approach
to foundational physics where laws derive from both consistent descriptions and
optimal information-based inferences made by embedded observers.

Although searches for new physics at the CERN Large Hadron Collider will
probably dominate the the agenda of the experimental high energy physics
community during the next decade or more, high-intensity experiments at the
tau-charm and beauty thresholds will continue to play important complementary
roles. These include the establishment of stringent constraints on proposed
theories for beyond-the-Standard-Model physics and unique opportunities to
address some new physics scenarios that are inaccessible at the LHC. In
addition, in the event that the LHC does discover some new phenomena, high
sensitivity flavor physics measurements could provide diagnostic clues as to
the physics processes responsible for the observed effects. In this talk I
present a few examples that illustrate the close inter-relation of new physics
searches at the high-energy frontier and high-sensitivity measurements at the
intensity frontier.

Dirac sought an interpretation of mathematical formalism in terms of physical
entities and Einstein insisted that physics should describe "the real states of
the real systems". While Bell inequalities put into question the reality of
states, modern device-independent approaches do away with the idea of entities:
physical theory may contain no physical systems. Focusing on the correlations
between operationally defined inputs and outputs, device-independent methods
promote a view more distant from the conventional one than Einstein's
'principle theories' were from 'constructive theories'. On the examples of
indefinite causal orders and almost quantum correlations, we ask a puzzling
question: if physical theory is not about systems, then what is it about? The
answer given by the device-independent models is that physics is about
languages. In moving away from the information-theoretic reconstructions of
quantum theory, this answer marks a new conceptual development in the
foundations of physics.

This volume constitutes the proceedings of the 7th International Workshop on
Physics and Computation (PC 2016). The workshop was held on the 14th of July
2016 in Manchester, UK, as a satellite workshop to UCNC 2016, the 15th
International Conference on Unconventional Computation and Natural Computation.
  The goal of the workshop series is to bring together researches working on
the interaction between physics and the theory of computation. This
intrinsically interdisciplinary domain of research strives to go beyond the
traditional use of mathematics as a tool to model and understand the behaviour
of physical systems. Instead, it looks to the the theory of computation and
information to provide new insights into physical systems and processes, and,
in turn, how these insights can lead to new methods, models and notation of
computation and new approaches to computational and mathematical problems.
Topics falling into this category at the interface of physics and computation
that are within the scope of the conference include, amongst many others, the
axiomatisation of physics, hypercomputation, the role of information in
physical systems, quantum information, randomness in physics, theories of
measurement, and the philosophy of physics and computation.

Physics education research has used quantitative modeling techniques to
explore learning, affect, and other aspects of physics education. However,
these studies have rarely examined the predictive output of the models, instead
focusing on the inferences or causal relationships observed in various data
sets. This research introduces a modern predictive modeling approach to the PER
community using transcript data for students declaring physics majors at
Michigan State University (MSU). Using a machine learning model, this analysis
demonstrates that students who switch from a physics degree program to an
engineering degree program do not take the third semester course in
thermodynamics and modern physics, and may take engineering courses while
registered as a physics major. Performance in introductory physics and calculus
courses, measured by grade as well as a students' declared gender and ethnicity
play a much smaller role relative to the other features included the model.
These results are used to compare traditional statistical analysis to a more
modern modeling approach.

Machine learning encompasses a broad range of algorithms and modeling tools
used for a vast array of data processing tasks, which has entered most
scientific disciplines in recent years. We review in a selective way the recent
research on the interface between machine learning and physical sciences. This
includes conceptual developments in machine learning (ML) motivated by physical
insights, applications of machine learning techniques to several domains in
physics, and cross-fertilization between the two fields. After giving basic
notion of machine learning methods and principles, we describe examples of how
statistical physics is used to understand methods in ML. We then move to
describe applications of ML methods in particle physics and cosmology, quantum
many body physics, quantum computing, and chemical and material physics. We
also highlight research and development into novel computing architectures
aimed at accelerating ML. In each of the sections we describe recent successes
as well as domain-specific methodology and challenges.

Surveillance cameras, which is a form of Cyber Physical System, are deployed
extensively to provide visual surveillance monitoring of activities of interest
or anomalies. However, these cameras are at risks of physical security attacks
against their physical attributes or configuration like tampering of their
recording coverage, camera positions or recording configurations like focus and
zoom factors. Such adversarial alteration of physical configuration could also
be invoked through cyber security attacks against the camera's software
vulnerabilities to administratively change the camera's physical configuration
settings. When such Cyber Physical attacks occur, they affect the integrity of
the targeted cameras that would in turn render these cameras ineffective in
fulfilling the intended security functions. There is a significant measure of
research work in detection mechanisms of cyber-attacks against these Cyber
Physical devices, however it is understudied area with such mechanisms against
integrity attacks on physical configuration. This research proposes the use of
the novel use of deep learning algorithms to detect such physical attacks
originating from cyber or physical spaces. Additionally, we proposed the novel
use of deep learning-based video frame interpolation for such detection that
has comparatively better performance to other anomaly detectors in
spatiotemporal environments.

Mathematical reasoning flexibility across physics contexts is a desirable
learning outcome of introductory physics, where the math world and physical
world meet. Physics Quantitative Literacy (PQL) is a set of interconnected
skills and habits of mind that support quantitative reasoning about the
physical world. The Physics Inventory of Quantitative Literacy (PIQL), which we
are currently refining and validating, assesses students proportional
reasoning, covariational reasoning, and reasoning with signed quantities in
physics contexts. In this paper, we apply a Conceptual Blending Theory analysis
of two exemplar PIQL items to demonstrate how we are using this theory to help
develop an instrument that represents the kind of blended reasoning that
characterizes expertise in physics. A Conceptual Blending Theory analysis
allows for assessment of hierarchical partially correct reasoning patterns, and
thereby holds potential to map the emergence of mathematical reasoning
flexibility throughout the introductory physics sequence.

Thermal physics is a core course requirement for most physics degrees and
encompasses both thermodynamics and statistical mechanics content. However, the
primary content foci of thermal physics courses vary across universities. This
variation can make creation of materials or assessment tools for thermal
physics difficult. To determine the scope and content variability of thermal
physics courses across institutions, we distributed a survey to over 140
institutions to determine content priorities from faculty and instructors who
have taught upper-division thermodynamics and/or statistical mechanics. We
present results from the survey, which highlight key similarities and
differences in thermal physics content coverage across institutions. Though we
see variations in content coverage, we found 9 key topical areas covered by all
respondents in their upper-division thermal physics courses. We discuss
implications of these findings for the development of instructional tools and
assessments that are useful to the widest range of institutions and physics
instructors.

This paper introduces an innovative physics-informed deep learning framework
for metamodeling of nonlinear structural systems with scarce data. The basic
concept is to incorporate physics knowledge (e.g., laws of physics, scientific
principles) into deep long short-term memory (LSTM) networks, which boosts the
learning within a feasible solution space. The physics constraints are embedded
in the loss function to enforce the model training which can accurately capture
latent system nonlinearity even with very limited available training datasets.
Specifically for dynamic structures, physical laws of equation of motion, state
dependency and hysteretic constitutive relationship are considered to construct
the physics loss. In particular, two physics-informed multi-LSTM network
architectures are proposed for structural metamodeling. The satisfactory
performance of the proposed framework is successfully demonstrated through two
illustrative examples (e.g., nonlinear structures subjected to ground motion
excitation). It turns out that the embedded physics can alleviate overfitting
issues, reduce the need of big training datasets, and improve the robustness of
the trained model for more reliable prediction. As a result, the
physics-informed deep learning paradigm outperforms classical
non-physics-guided data-driven neural networks.

In this study, we adapt prior identity framework to investigate the effect of
learning environment (including perceived recognition, peer interaction and
sense of belonging) on students' physics self-efficacy, interest and identity
by controlling for their self-efficacy and interest at the beginning of a
calculus-based introductory physics course. We surveyed 1203 students, 35% of
whom were women. We found that female students' physics self-efficacy and
interest were lower than male students' at the beginning of the course, and the
gender gaps in these motivational constructs became even larger by the end of
the course. Analysis revealed that the decrease in students' physics
self-efficacy and interest were mediated by the learning environment and
ultimately affected students' physics identity. Our model shows that perceived
recognition played a major role in explaining students' physics identity, and
students' sense of belonging in physics played an important role in explaining
the change in students' physics self-efficacy.

The milq approach to quantum physics for high schools focuses on the
conceptual questions of quantum physics. Students should be given the
opportunity to engage with the world view of modern physics. The aim is to
achieve a conceptually clear formulation of quantum physics with a minimum of
formulas. In order to provide students with verbal tools they can use in
discussions and argumentations we formulated four "reasoning tools". They help
to facilitate qualitative discussions of quantum physics, allow students to
predict quantum mechanical effects, and help to avoid learning difficulties.
They form a "beginners' axiomatic system" for quantum physics.

This is the third series of the lab manuals for virtual teaching of
introductory physics classes. This covers fluids, waves, thermodynamics,
optics, interference, photoelectric effect, atomic spectra, and radiation
concepts. A few of these labs can be used within Physics I and a few other labs
within Physics II depending on the syllabi of Physics I and II classes. Virtual
experiments in this lab manual and our previous Physics I (arXiv.2012.09151)
and Physics II (arXiv.2012.13278) lab manuals were designed for 2.45 hrs long
lab classes (algebra-based and calculus-based). However, all the virtual labs
in these three series can be easily simplified to align with conceptual type or
short time physics lab classes as desired. All the virtual experiments were
based on open education resource (OER) type simulations. Virtual experiments
were designed to simulate in-person physical laboratory experiments. Student
learning outcomes (understand, apply, analyze and evaluate) were studied with
detailed lab reports per each experiment and end of the semester written exam
which was based on experiments. Special emphasis was given to study the student
skill development of computational data analysis.

We investigate how neural networks (NNs) understand physics using 1D quantum
mechanics. After training an NN to accurately predict energy eigenvalues from
potentials, we used it to confirm the NN's understanding of physics from four
different aspects. The trained NN could predict energy eigenvalues of different
kinds of potentials than the ones learned, predict the probability distribution
of the existence of particles not used during training, reproduce untrained
physical phenomena, and predict the energy eigenvalues of potentials with an
unknown matter effect. These results show that NNs can learn physical laws from
experimental data, predict the results of experiments under conditions
different from those used for training, and predict physical quantities of
types not provided during training. Because NNs understand physics in a
different way than humans, they will be a powerful tool for advancing physics
by complementing the human way of understanding.

Covariational reasoning--considering how changes in one quantity affect
another, related quantity--is a foundation of quantitative modeling in physics.
Understanding quantitative models is a learning objective of introductory
physics instruction at the college level. Prior work suggests that
covariational reasoning in physics contexts differs in important ways from
reasoning about functions and graphs in purely mathematical contexts; this
reasoning is effortful in physics even for mathematically well-prepared
students. In order to help students learn to reason covariationally in physics
contexts, we need to characterize what we mean by physics covariational
reasoning. To this end, we present a framework of covariational reasoning in
physics contexts, to describe the ways that covariational reasoning is used in
physics modeling. The framework can be used as a tool by which instructors can
recognize physics covariational reasoning patterns and researchers can analyze
student reasoning. The framework can also help inform the development of
effective instructional materials and methods.

Einstein's general relativity is increasingly important in contemporary
physics on the frontiers of both the very largest distance scales (astrophysics
and cosmology) and the very smallest(elementary particle physics). This paper
makes the case for a `physics first' approach to introducing general relativity
to undergraduate physics majors.

We review the status of heavy flavour physics at the Fermilab Tevatron
collider by summarizing recent top quark and B physics results from CDF and DO.
In particular we discuss the measurement of the top quark mass and top
production cross section as well as B meson lifetimes and time dependent BB=
mixing results. An outlook of perspectives for top and B physics in Run II
starting in 1999 is also given.

The Forward Detector upgrade project at CDF is designed to enhance the
capabilities for studies of diffractive physics at the Tevatron during Run II.
Studies of hard diffraction and very forward physics are some of the topics
that can be addressed in the next few years at the Tevatron. The program for
diffractive physics, including the detectors and their commissioning, is
discussed here. All the detectors have been installed and are presently
collecting data.

Fermilab has long had the world's most intense antiproton source. Despite
this, opportunities for low-energy antiproton physics at Fermilab have in the
past been limited and--with the antiproton source now exclusively dedicated to
serving the needs of the Tevatron Collider--are currently nonexistent. While
the future of antiproton physics at Fermilab is uncertain, the anticipated
shutdown of the Tevatron in about 2009 presents the opportunity for a
world-leading low-energy antiproton program. We summarize the current status of
the Fermilab antiproton facility and review some current topics in hyperon
physics as examples of what might be achievable.

The role of charm in testing the Standard Model description of quark mixing
and CP violation through measurements of lifetimes, decay constants and
semileptonic form factors is reviewed. Together with Lattice QCD, charm has the
potential this decade to maximize the sensitivity of the entire flavor physics
program to new physics. and pave the way for understanding physics beyond the
Standard Model at the LHC in the coming decade. The status of indirect searches
for physics beyond the Standard Model through charm mixing, CP-violation and
rare decays is also reported.

This paper shows that there are no {\em physical} walls in the deconfined,
high-temperature phase of $Z(2)$ lattice gauge theory. In a Hamiltonian
formulation, the interface in the Wilson lines is not physical. The line
interface and its energy are interpreted in terms of physical variables. They
are associated with a difference between two partition functions. One includes
only the configurations with even flux across the interface. The other is
restricted to odd flux. Also, with matter present, there is no physical
metastable state. However, the free energy is lowered by the matter. This
effect is described in terms of physical variables.

Lattice QCD has the potential this decade to maximize the sensitivity of the
entire flavor physics program to new physics and pave the way for understanding
physics beyond the Standard Model at the LHC in the coming decade. However, the
challenge for the Lattice is to demonstrate reliability at the level of a few
per cent given a past history of 10-20% errors. The CLEO-c program at the
Cornell Electron Storage Ring is providing the data that will make the
demonstration possible.

We review new physics effects on CP violation in B decays. We describe the
Standard Model predictions for the various types of CP asymmetries and discuss
the theoretical cleanliness of these predictions. We point out the ingredients
in the analysis that are most sensitive to new physics and deduce the type of
new physics that is likely to modify the Standard Model predictions. Several
explicit examples are discussed in detail. Finally, we explain how, if
deviations from the Standard Model predictions are measured, we will be able to
learn detailed features of the new physics involved. Plenary talk presented at
the Workshop on B Physics at Hadron Accelerators, Snowmass, Colorado, June 21 -
July 2, 1993.

This is a written version of a series of three lectures aimed at graduate
students in the field of experimental high energy physics. The emphasis is on
physics that is relevant to $B$-factories. The main topics covered are: (i) The
flavor sector of the Standard Model; (ii) Determination of the mixing
parameters; (iii) CP violation in meson decays (a model independent
description); (iv) CP violation in the Standard Model; (v) CP violation as a
probe of new physics.

COSMOPARTICLE PHYSICS is the specific crossdisciplinary field of science,
studying foundations of particle physics and cosmology in the combination of
indirect cosmological, astrophysical and physical signatures of their
fundamental relationship. The possibilities to elaborate unique theoretical
grounds for cosmology and particle physics and to study quantitative
relationships between cosmological and laboratory effects follow from the basic
principles of cosmoparticle physics and open new interesting fields of
scientific research in its future development.

This Fifth International WEIN Symposium is devoted to physics beyond the
standard model. This talk is about tau lepton physics, but I begin with the
question: do we know how to find new physics in the world of elementary
particles? This question is interwoven with the various tau physics topics.
These topics are: searching for unexpected tau decay modes; searching for
additional tau decay mechanisms; radiative tau decays; tau decay modes of the
W, B, and D; decay of the Z^0 to tau pairs; searching for CP violation in tau
decay; the tau neutrino, dreams and odd ideas in tau physics; and tau research
facilities in the next decades.

A fairly non-technical introduction to and survey of supersymmetry
phenomenology with pedagogical emphasis, including exercises. Suitable for both
theorists and experimentalists. The manuscript appeared as a Springer-Verlag
monograph in physics. The body of the manuscript is provided here with the
publisher`s permission.

This report presents a review of the studies made in the working group on
gamma gamma and e gamma physics" of the ECFA/DESY workshop on linear collider
physics. It reports on several new physics studies, in particular s-channel
Higgs production. A summary of R&D activities for the interaction region is
presented. The merits of e-e- collisions are briefly recalled.

Now that lattice QCD simulations are able to include effects of light sea
quarks, the prospects are good for constraining quark flavor phenomenology.
This review talk for particle physics experimentalists begins with an
introduction intended to describe broadly the steps of lattice Monte Carlo
simulations. The remainder of the talk is a brief survey of recent and ongoing
calculations relevant for quark flavor physics.

Modern cosmology poses deep and unavoidable questions for fundamental
physics. In this plenary talk, delivered in slightly different forms at the
{\it Particles and Nuclei International Conference} (PANIC05) in Santa Fe, in
October 2005, and at the {\it CMB and Physics of the Early Universe
International Conference}, on the island of Ischia, Italy, in April 2006, I
discuss the broad connections between cosmology and particle physics, focusing
on physics at the TeV scale, accessible at the next and future generations of
colliders

A comparison of the standard models in particle physics and in cosmology
demonstrates that they are not compatible, though both are well established.
Basics of modern cosmology are briefly reviewed. It is argued that the
measurements of the main cosmological parameters are achieved through many
independent physical phenomena and this minimizes possible interpretation
errors. It is shown that astronomy demands new physics beyond the frameworks of
the (minimal) standard model in particle physics. More revolutionary
modifications of the basic principles of the theory are also discussed.

The prospects for physics at the LHC are discussed, starting with the
foretaste, preparation (and perhaps scoop) provided by the Tevatron, in
particular, and then continuing through the successive phases of LHC operation.
These include the start-up phase, the early physics runs, the possible search
for new physics in double diffraction, the continuation to nominal LHC running,
and the possible upgrade of the LHC luminosity. Emphasis is placed on the
prospects for Higgs physics and the search for supersymmetry. The progress and
discoveries of the LHC will set the time-scale and agenda for the major future
accelerator projects that will follow it.

One route towards understanding both fractional charges and chiral anomalies
delves into Dirac's negative energy sea. Usually we think of Dirac's negative
energy sea as an unphysical construct, invented to render quantum field theory
physically acceptable by hiding the negative energy solutions. I suggest that
in fact physical consequences can be drawn from Dirac's construction.

The physical meaning and the geometrical interpretation of causality
implementation in classical field theories are discussed. Local causality are
kinematical constraints dynamically implemented via solutions of the field
equations, but in a limit of zero-distance from the field sources part of these
constraints carries a dynamical content that explains old problems of classical
electrodynamics away with deep implications to the nature of physical
interactions.

Principles of a new approach (binary geometrophysics) are presented to
construct the unified theory of spacetime and the familiar kinds of physical
interactions. Physically, the approach is a modified S-matrix theory involving
ideas of the multidimensional geometric models of physical interactions of
Kaluza-Klein's type as well as Fokker-Feynman's action-at-a-distance theory.
Mathematically, this is a peculiar binary geometry being described in algebraic
terms. In the present approach the binary geometry volume is a prototype of
three related notions: the S-matrix, the physical action (Lagrangian) of both
strong and electroweak interactions, and the multidimensional metric. A
transition from microworld geometrophysics to the conventional physical theory
in classical spacetime are characterized.

This is a preliminary version, comments and inputs are welcome.
  Contents:
  1. Introduction.
  2. Fuzzy Spaces.
  3. Star Products.
  4. Scalar Fields on the Fuzzy Sphere.
  5. Instantons, Monopoles and Projective Modules.
  6. Fuzzy Nonlinear Sigma Models.
  7. Fuzzy Gauge Theories.
  8. The Dirac Operator and Axial Anomaly.
  9. Fuzzy Supersymmetry.
  10.Fuzzy Spaces as Hopf Algebras.

We address the question "How do students make sense of Physics from the point
of view of constituting physics knowledge?". A phenomenographic study is
described as a result of which we present six qualitatively different ways in
which students experience the first year of Physics. The variation is analysed
in terms of the structure of experience, the nature of knowlege and an ethical
aspect related to the identification of authority. Three of these ways of
experiencing the first year are considered to be unproductive in terms of
making sense of physics, while the other three support, to an increasing
degree, the formation of a well-grounded physics knowledge object. Implications
for practice are considered.

We propose a distinction between the physical and the mathematical parts of
gauge field theories. The main problem we face is to uphold a strong and
meaningful criterion of what is physical. We like to call it "Field's dilemma",
referring to Hartry Field's nominalist proposal which we consider to be
inadaequate. The resolution to the dilemma, we believe, is implicitly provided
by the so-called fiber bundle formalism. We shall demonstrate, in detail, that
the bundle structure underlying modern quantum and gravitational gauge field
theories allows for a genuine distinction between the physically significant
and the merely mathematical parts of these theories.

The paper discusses some aspects of real physical space and time: structure
of electrodynamics; structure of gravitational-inert theory in the real world;
formation of the real matter; Mach's principle and the radiational cosmic mass;
spread and transmission of information in the space of the real world;
fundamental and main physical constants, protostar or 3+1-dimensional matter;
and some philosophical and general physical approaches to solutions of physical
problems.

We investigate studnets' use of words used in everyday language as well as in
physics. We find students are more likely to identify and explain the meaning
of the word as it is used in physics when they have become familiar with the
associated physical variables.

We consider an application of variational-wavelet approach to nonlinear
collective models of beam/plasma physics: Vlasov/Boltzmann-like reduction from
general BBGKY hierachy. We obtain fast convergent multiresolution
representations for solutions which allow to consider polynomial and rational
type of nonlinearities. The solutions are represented via the multiscale
decomposition in nonlinear high-localized eigenmodes (waveletons).

Physics education research (PER) aims to improve how students solve problems.
But whose problems are we teaching students to solve? Physics has grown up as a
child of war, and PER stems from the cognitive revolution in psychology, which
arose from military needs and funding. Physics, PER, and state power are
allies. By improving physics teaching, we arm the state against ourselves and
move farther from a peaceful and humane world.

We give, for the first time, the English translation of a manuscript by
Ettore Majorana, which probably corresponds to the text for a seminar delivered
at the University of Naples in 1938, where he lectured on Theoretical Physics.
Some passages reveal a physical interpretation of the Quantum Mechanics which
anticipates of several years the Feynman approach in terms of path integrals,
independently of the underlying mathematical formulation.

An account is given of some topical unpublished work by Ettore Majorana,
revealing his very deep intuitions and skilfulness in Theoretical Physics. The
relevance of the quite unknown results obtained by him is pointed out as well.

Carl Gustav Hempel (1905-1997) formulated the dilemma that carries his name
in an attempt to determine the boundaries of physics. Where does physics go
over into metaphysics? The purpose of this contribution is to indicate how a
recently developed field of research, the physics of computation, might offer a
new answer to that old question: The boundary between physics and metaphysics
is the boundary between what can and what cannot be computed in the age of the
universe.

Giulio Racah's name is known world wide in physics due to the mathematical
methods he developed that are based on tensor operators and continuous groups.
These methods revolutionized spectroscopy, and they are currently essential
research tools in atomic, nuclear and elementary particle physics. He himself
applied them to modernizing theoretical atomic spectroscopy. Racah laid the
foundations of theoretical physics in Israel. He educated several generations
of Israeli physicists, and put Israel on the world map of physics.

Three emerging technologies in physics education are evaluated from the
interdisciplinary perspective of cognitive science and physics education
research. The technologies - Physlet Physics, the Andes Intelligent Tutoring
System (ITS), and Microcomputer-Based Laboratory (MBL) Tools - are assessed
particularly in terms of their potential at promoting conceptual change,
developing expert-like problem-solving skills, and achieving the goals of the
traditional physics laboratory. Pedagogical methods to maximize the potential
of each educational technology are suggested.

This paper addresses the three following questions. (i) How the structures of
group and of chain of groups enter nuclear, atomic and molecular spectroscopy?
(ii) How these structures can be exploited, in a quantum- mechanical framework,
in the problems of state labelling and (external) symmetry breaking? (iii) How
it is possible to associate a Wigner-Racah algebra to a group or a chain of
groups for making easier the calculation of quantum-mechanical matrix elements?
Numerous examples illustrate the philosophy of qualitative and quantitative
applications to spectroscopy.

We show that the principles of a ''complete physical theory'' and the
conclusions of the standard quantum mechanics do not irreconcilably contradict
each other as is commonly believed. In the algebraic approach, we formulate
axioms that allow constructing a renewed mathematical scheme of quantum
mechanics. This scheme involves the standard mathematical formalism of quantum
mechanics. Simultaneously, it contains a mathematical object that adequately
describes a single experiment. We give an example of the application of the
proposed scheme.

We analyze the notion that physical theories are quantitative and testable by
observations in experiments. This leads us to propose a new, Bayesian,
interpretation of probabilities in physics that unifies their current use in
classical physical theories, experimental physics and quantum mechanics.
Probabilities are the result of quantifying the domain of possibilities that
results when we interpret observations within the framework of a physical
theory. They could also be said to be measures of information used to make
predictions based upon a physical theory.

We study the physical content of the PT-symmetric complex extension of
quantum mechanics as proposed in Bender et al, Phys. Rev. Lett. 80, 5243 (1998)
and 89, 270401 (2002), and show that as a fundamental probabilistic physical
theory it is neither an alternative to nor an extension of ordinary quantum
mechanics. We demonstrate that the definition of a physical observable given in
the above papers is inconsistent with the dynamical aspect of the theory and
offer a consistent notion of an observable.

We propose a general scheme for the "logic" of elementary propositions of
physical systems, encompassing both classical and quantum cases, in the
framework given by Non Commutative Geometry. It involves Baire*-algebras, the
non-commutative version of measurable functions, arising as envelope of the
C*-algebras identifying the topology of the (non-commutative) phase space. We
outline some consequences of this proposal in different physical systems. This
approach in particular avoids some problematic features appearing in the
definition of the state of "initial conditions" in the standard W*-algebraic
approach to classical systems.

Time-resolved photoelectron spectra are proposed for the measurement of
classical information recorded in the quantum phases of a molecular rotational
wave packet. Taking Li2 as a prototypical system, we show that an interference
arises from the electron-nuclei entanglement induced by the molecular
anisotropy. This phenomenon is used to transfer the information that was stored
initially in the nuclear rotational degree of freedom into the electronic
degree of freedom.

We propose an alternative scenario for the generation of entanglement between
rotational quantum states of two polar molecules. This entanglement arises from
dipole-dipole interaction, and is controlled by a sequence of laser pulses
simultaneously exciting both molecules. We study the efficiency of the process,
and discuss possible experimental implementations with cold molecules trapped
in optical lattices or in solid matrices. Finally, various entanglement
detection procedures are presented, and their suitability for these two
physical situations is analyzed.

In this lecture note, I discuss why many of us are expecting rich physics at
the TeV scale, drawing analogies from the history of physics in the last
century. Then I review some of the possible candidates of new physics at this
energy scale. I also discuss why we believe much of the matter in the universe
is not atoms (baryons) or compact astronomical objects, and hence requires
physics beyond the standard model. Finally I discuss some of the candidates for
the non-baryonic dark matter.

All experimental measurements of particle physics today are beautifully
described by the Standard Model. However, there are good reasons to believe
that new physics may be just around the corner at the TeV energy scale. This
energy range is currently probed by the Tevatron and HERA accelerators and
selected results of searches for physics beyond the Standard Model are
presented here. No signals for new physics have been found and limits are
placed on the allowed parameter space for a variety of different particles.

Some aspects of electroweak physics at the International Linear Collider
(ILC) are reviewed. The importance of precision measurements in the Higgs
sector and in top-quark physics is emphasized, and the physics potential of the
GigaZ option of the ILC is discussed. It is shown in particular that even in a
scenario where the states of new physics are so heavy that they would be
outside of the reach of the LHC and the first phase of the ILC, the GigaZ
precision on the effective weak mixing angle may nevertheless allow the
detection of quantum effects of new physics.

Thermodynamics of quasianti-Hermitian quaternionic systems with constant
number of particles in equilibrium is studied. A toy model is introduced and
the physically relevant quantities are derived. The energy fluctuation which
shows that for large N the relative r.m.s fluctuation in the values of E is
quite negligible is derived. The negative temperature for such systems is also
studied. Finally a physical example is discussed and physical explanations in
the context of quantum physics are given.

We turn `the' Church-Turing Hypothesis from an ambiguous source of
sensational speculations into a (collection of) sound and well-defined
scientific problem(s):
  Examining recent controversies, and causes for misunderstanding, concerning
the state of the Church-Turing Hypothesis (CTH), suggests to study the CTH
relative to an arbitrary but specific physical theory--rather than vaguely
referring to ``nature'' in general. To this end we combine (and compare)
physical structuralism with (models of computation in) complexity theory. The
benefit of this formal framework is illustrated by reporting on some previous,
and giving one new, example result(s) of computability and complexity in
computational physics.

An overview of the prospects of top quark physics at the LHC is presented.
The ATLAS and the CMS detectors are about to produce a large amount of data
with high top quark contents from the LHC proton-proton collisions. A wide
variet y of physics analyses is planned in both experiments, and a number of
useful insights have already been obtained regarding their detector performance
and physics potential. This summary is based on the talk presented at the
Hadron C ollider Physics Symposium 2008, Galena, Illinois, May 27-31, 2008.

Physical time intervals are attributes of single physical object whereas
physical space intervals are a relational attribute of two physical objects.
Some consequences of the breaking of the space-time exchange symmetry inherent
in the Lorentz transformation following from the above distinction are
investigated. In particular, it is shown that the relativity of simultaneity
and length contraction effects which naively follow from space-time symmetry of
the Lorentz transformation do not occur. Seven laws describing the relation
between observations of space intervals, time intervals and velocities in
different reference frames are given. Only two of these laws are respected by
conventional special relativity theory.

Forward physics with CMS at the LHC covers a wide range of physics subjects,
including very low-x_Bj QCD, underlying event and multiple interactions
characteristics, gamma-mediated processes, shower development at the energy
scale of primary cosmic ray interactions with the atmosphere, diffraction in
the presence of a hard scale and even MSSM Higgs discovery in central exclusive
production. Selected feasibility studies to illustrate the forward physics
potential of CMS are presented.

This paper aims to review our recent results on exploring the capabilities of
non-quantum field theory as a possible tool for describing single photon-like
objects, considered as massless time-stable spatially finite physical entities
with compatible translational-rotational dynamical structure. The main idea is
to interpret the local physical interaction as available Frobenius curvature.
It consists of five chapters and includes 22 sections and subsections.

We outline Fermi's early attitude towards old quantum physics. We sketch out
the context from which his interest for quantum physics arose, and we deal with
his work on quantum statistics. We also go through the first two courses on
theoretical physics he held in Rome, and his 1928 book on atomic physics.

I discuss the notions of traditional vector length, and suggest defining a
complex vector length for complex vectors, as opposed to the traditional
Hermitian real length. The advantages of this are shown in the development of
rotations through imaginary angles. Emphasis is placed on visualizing these
quantities and rotations graphically, and I show some applications in physics:
Lorentz transformations, Grassmann variables, and Pauli spin matrices.

The LHC physics era is about to commence; here we discuss a complementary
physics program that would be realized at a high luminosity flavor factory. A
flavor factory experiment can search for new physics in CP asymmetries,
inclusive decay processes, rare leptonic processes, absolute branching
fractions, and other measurements that are challenging or not feasible at the
LHC. Such measurements would provide good sensitivity to new physics phases,
the presence of a charged Higgs, and supersymmetric couplings. The charged
Higgs mass range probed is similar to that accessible at the LHC.

Grand Unification of all forces has been a well motivated paradigm for
particle physics. This subject has been recently revisited in the context of
string theory, leading to a geometric reformulation of the idea of unification
of forces. The interplay between geometry and physics has led to a natural
resolution to a number of puzzles of particle physics utilizing the geometry of
extra dimensions of string theory. Here we review aspects of these developments
for a mathematical audience (based on talks given in honor of Yau's 60th,
Atiyah's 80th and Singer's 85th birthdays).

This paper is a discussion of the physics of magnification in telescopes.
Special attention is given to the question of whether telescopes magnify stars.
Telescopes do magnify star images, although opinions to the contrary abound.

Paradoxes are a relatively frequent occurrence in physics. The nature of
their genesis is diverse and they are found in all branches of physics. There
are a number of general and special classifications of paradoxes, but there are
no classifications of paradoxes in physics. Nowadays, physics is a fundamental
and rather formalized science, the paradoxes of which imply falsity and
imprecision. One of the basic methods of addressing a problem is to present
classifications that facilitate its formulation and study. This work groups
together the paradoxes in physics according to certain common characteristics,
which should assist in explaining the causes for paradox formation.

What is physics? What are the limits of what physics can say about the world?
In seeking ever-broader theoretical `umbrellas' for physical phenomena, we are
seeking unifying principles. Emergent phenomena have turned out to be some of
the most difficult to explain, causing a `clash of umbrellas' so-to-speak, at
the interface between the quantum and classical domains. This essay explores
the role of articulation in this particularly vexing problem and ultimately
addresses the question of whether the language and mathematics we use to
describe the universe is sufficient in its present form and application.

This paper presents a new technique to calculate the evolution of a quantum
wavefunction in a chosen spatial basis by minimizing the accumulated action.
Introduction of a finite temporal basis reduces the problem to a set of linear
equations, while an appropriate choice of temporal basis set offers improved
convergence relative to methods based on matrix exponentiation for a class of
physically relevant problems.

We review the field of top-quark physics with an emphasis on experimental
techniques. The role of the top quark in the Standard Model of particle physics
is summarized and the basic phenomenology of top-quark production and decay is
introduced. We discuss how contributions from physics beyond the Standard Model
could affect top-quark properties or event samples. The many measurements made
at the Fermilab Tevatron, which test the Standard Model predictions or probe
for direct evidence of new physics using the top-quark event samples, are
reviewed here.

These summer school lectures cover the use of algebraic techniques in various
subfields of nuclear physics. After a brief description of groups and algebras,
concepts of dynamical symmetry, dynamical supersymmetry, and supersymmetric
quantum mechanics are introduced. Appropriate tools such as quasiparticles,
quasispin, and Bogoliubov transformations are discussed with an emphasis on
group theoretical foundations of these tools. To illustrate these concepts
three physics applications are worked out in some detail: i) Pairing in nuclear
physics; ii) Subbarrier fusion and associated group transformations; and iii)
Symmetries of neutrino mass and of a related neutrino many-body problem.

Moriond QCD brings together particle physicists of varied interests. This
review and introduction to heavy flavour physics is aimed at those not in the
heavy-flavour field to describe the motivation and methodology of precision
flavour physics, and introduce the most tantalising searches for new physics.
The LHC experiments are expected to make great inroads into constraining the
new physics parameter space and discover the new physics which I will argue
\emph{must} be present to describe our observed universe.

Both CDF and DO report a forward-backward asymmetry in t-tbar production that
is above the standard model prediction. We review new physics models that can
give a large forward backward asymmetry in t-tbar production at the Tevatron
and the constraints these models face from searches for dijet resonances and
contact interactions, from flavor physics and the t-tbar cross section.
Expected signals at the LHC are also reviewed.

Prior research has demonstrated how the realist perspectives of classical
physics students can translate into specific beliefs about quantum phenomena
when taking an introductory modern physics course. Student beliefs regarding
the interpretation of quantum mechanics often vary by context, and are most
often in alignment with instructional goals in topic areas where instructors
are explicit in promoting a particular perspective. Moreover, students are more
likely to maintain realist perspectives in topic areas where instructors are
less explicit in addressing interpretive themes, thereby making such issues
part of a hidden curriculum. We discuss various approaches to addressing
student perspectives and interpretive themes in a modern physics course, and
explore the associated impacts on student thinking.

The European School of High-Energy Physics is intended to give young
physicists an introduction to the theoretical aspects of recent advances in
elementary particle physics. These proceedings contain lecture notes on the
Standard Model of electroweak interactions, quantum chromodynamics, heavy ion
physics, physics beyond the Standard Model, neutrino physics, and cosmology.

A Hegelian version of the concept of problematic is used to investigate the
underlying theoretical unity and structure of Arabic physical science (physics,
astronomy and chemistry). A contradictory triad (associated with Platonism,
Aristotelian philosophy and Ptolemaic science) is identified at the heart of
the Arabic project for physical science. The paper focuses on the valiant
attempts made by leading Arabic scientists to overcome these contradictions
without transcending or tearing apart the prevailing problematic. The following
question is then addressed: why was Arabic physical science reformist, rather
than revolutionary, unlike Renaissance European physical science? An answer is
proposed in terms of the history, nature and decline of Arabic rationalism.

A short resume is given about the nature of exceptional points (EPs) followed
by discussions about their ubiquitous occurrence in a great variety of physical
problems. EPs feature in classical as well as in quantum mechanical problems.
They are associated with symmetry breaking for ${\cal PT}$-symmetric
Hamiltonians, where a great number of experiments have been performed in
particular in optics, and to an increasing extent in atomic and molecular
physics. EPs are involved in quantum phase transition and quantum chaos, they
produce dramatic effects in multichannel scattering, specific time dependence
and more. In nuclear physics they are associated with instabilities and
continuum problems. Being spectral singularities they also affect approximation
schemes.

We sketch a staged plan for a series of muon-based facilities that can do
compelling physics at each stage. Such a plan is unique in its ability to span
both the Intensity and Energy Frontiers as defined by the P5 sub-panel of the
US High Energy Physics Advisory Committee. This unique physics reach places a
muon-based facility in an unequaled position to address critical questions
about the nature of the Universe.

Physics at the ILC is reviewed focusing mostly on Higgs physics. It is
emphasized that at the ILC it is possible to measure the $hZZ$ coupling totally
model independently, which in turn allows model-independent normalization of
various branching ratio measurements and consequently the absolute measurements
of corresponding couplings. Combining them with the measurements of the top
Yukawa coupling and the Higgs self-coupling at higher energies, the full ILC
program is shown to allow a precision test of the mass-coupling relation.

This article summarizes main developments of the hadron colliders and physics
results obtained since their inception around forty years ago. The increase in
the collision energy of over two orders of magnitude and even larger increases
in luminosity provided experiments with unique data samples. Developments of
full acceptance detectors, particle identification and analysis methods
provided fundamental discoveries and ultra-precise measurements which
culminated in the completion and in depth verification of the Standard Model.
Hadron Collider Physics symposium provided opportunities for those working at
hadron colliders to share results of their research since 1979 and helped
greatly to develop the field of particle physics.

Indecomposable but reducible representations of several Lie algebras of local
scale-transformations, including the Schr\"odinger and conformal Galilean
algebras, and some of their applications in physical ageing are reviewed. The
physical requirement of the decay of co-variant two-point functions for large
distances is related to analyticity properties in the coordinates dual to the
physical masses or rapidities.

We present a status report on the indirect searches for New Physics performed
by means of heavy flavour decays. Particular attention is devoted to the recent
experimental results in B and charm physics obtained by the LHC experiments.
The implications of these results for physics beyond the Standard Model are
discussed both in general terms and by means of a few specific examples.

The existence of New Physics particles can be probed by performing precision
measurements of physics phenomena at the few GeV energy scale. The decays of B
and D mesons are an excellent example of relatively low energy phenomena that
can be sensitive to New Physics scales at the TeV region or above. In this
contribution, some recent results obtained by the BABAR and Belle
Collaborations are presented, and their implications for the indirect searches
for New Physics are discussed.

Top physics provides a fertile ground for new-physics searches. At present,
most top observables appear to be in good agreement with the respective
Standard Model predictions. However, in the case of decay modes that are
suppressed in the Standard Model, new-physics contributions of comparable
magnitude may exist and yet go unnoticed because their impact on the total
decay width is small. Hence it is interesting to probe rare top decays. This
analysis focuses on the decay $t \to b \bar b c$. Useful observables are
identified and prospects for measuring new-physics parameters are examined.

CLICdp, the CLIC detector and physics study, is an international
collaboration presently composed of 23 institutions. The collaboration is
addressing detector and physics issues for the future Compact Linear Collider
(CLIC), a high-energy electron-positron accelerator which is one of the options
for the next collider to be built at CERN. Precision physics under challenging
beam and background conditions is the key theme for the CLIC detector studies.
This leads to a number of cutting-edge R&D activities within CLICdp. The talk
includes a brief introduction to CLIC, accelerator and detectors, hardware R&D
as well as physics studies at CLIC.

The theory of causal fermion systems is an approach to describe fundamental
physics. Giving quantum mechanics, general relativity and quantum field theory
as limiting cases, it is a candidate for a unified physical theory. We here
give a non-technical introduction.

The European School of High-Energy Physics is intended to give young
physicists an introduction to the theoretical aspects of recent advances in
elementary particle physics. These proceedings contain lecture notes on the
Standard Model of electroweak interactions, quantum chromodynamics, flavour
physics, physics beyond the Standard Model, neutrino physics, and cosmology.

In this paper, we discuss the physical web projects based on network
proximity for Smart Cities. In general, the Physical Web is an approach for
connecting any physical object to the web. With this approach, we can navigate
and control physical objects in the world surrounding mobile devices.
Alternatively, we can execute services on mobile devices, depending on the
surrounding physical objects. Technically, there are different ways to
enumerate physical objects. In this paper, we will target the models based on
the wireless proximity.

We describe an undergraduate course where physics students are asked to
conceive an outreach project of their own. The course alternates between the
project conception and teachings about pedagogy and outreach, and ends in a
public show. We describe its practical implementation and benefits. Through a
student survey and an analysis of their projects, we discuss the merits and
flaws of this "learning-by-doing" teaching approach for physics.

Physical quantities and physical dimensions are among the first concepts
encountered by students in their undergraduate career. In this pedagogical
review, I will start from these concepts and, using the powerful tool of
dimensional analysis, I will embark in a journey through various branches of
physics, from basic mechanics to quantum gravity. I will also discuss a little
bit about the fundamental constants of Nature, the so-called "cube of Physics",
and the natural system of units.

The situation in particle physics after the discovery of the Higgs boson is
discussed. Is the Standard Model consistent quantum field theory? Does it
describe all experimental data? Are there any indications of physics beyond the
SM? Is there another scale except for the EW and the Planck ones? Is the SM of
particles physics compatible with Cosmology? New challenges of hadron physics:
exotic hadrons and dense hadronic matter. Search for new physics, from the
Higgs sector to dark matter, supersymmetry, extra dimensions and compositeness.
What do we expect? What are the main targets? We try to answer the main
questions and describe the key issues of possible new physics beyond the SM.

We examine the difficulties that introductory physics students, undergraduate
physics majors, and physics graduate students have with concepts related to
conductors and insulators covered in introductory physics by giving written
tests and interviewing a subset of students. We find that even graduate
students have serious difficulties with these concepts. We develop tutorials
related to these topics and evaluate their effectiveness by comparing the
performance on written pre-/post-tests and interviews of students who received
traditional instruction vs. those who learned using tutorials.

The cornerstone of the Chinese experimental particle physics program consists
of a series of experiments performed in the tau-charm energy region. China
began building e+e- colliders at the Institute for High Energy Physics in
Beijing more than three decades ago. Beijing Electron Spectrometer, BES, is the
common root name for the particle physics detectors operated at these machines.
The development of the BES program is summarized and highlights of the physics
results across several topical areas are presented.

We show that a wide class of quantum systems with translational invariance
can host dispersionless, soliton-like, wave packets. We focus on the setting
where the effective, two-dimensional Hamiltonian acquires the form of the Dirac
operator. The proposed framework for construction of the dispersionless wave
packets is illustrated on silicene-like systems with topologically nontrivial
effective mass. Our analytical predictions are accompanied by a numerical
analysis and possible experimental realizations are discussed.

The CERN - Latin-American School of High-Energy Physics is intended to give
young physicists an introduction to the theoretical aspects of recent advances
in elementary particle physics. These proceedings contain lecture notes on the
Standard Model of electroweak interactions, quantum chromodynamics, flavour
physics, quantum chromodynamics under extreme conditions, cosmic-ray physics,
cosmology, recent highlights of LHC results, practical statistics for particle
physicists and a short introduction to the principles of particle physics
instrumentation.

In this article we study physical realizability for a class of nonlinear
quantum stochastic differential equations (QSDEs). Physical realizability is a
property in which a QSDE corresponds to the dynamics of an open quantum system.
We derive a sufficient and necessary condition for a nonlinear QSDE to be
physically realizable.

In 2012, Chen Ning Yang received a 90th birthday gift in the form of a black
cube inscribed with his 13 most important contributions, which cover four major
areas of physics: statistical mechanics, condensed matter physics, particle
physics and field theory. We briefly describe these 13 contributions and make
general comments about Yang's distinctive style as a trailblazing leader in
research.

After more than forty years since the basic standard model for supernovae Ia
was proposed many astronomers are still hopeful that this phenomenon will
ultimately be understood in terms of Newtonian gravity plus nuclear and
particle physics as they existed in the 1930's. In spite of this fact there are
at least six nagging puzzles in supernova physics that suggest some radical new
physics input may be necessary. "Radical" in this context means a physics idea
that did not exist in the 1930's and that is still not experimentally confirmed
in 2017.

Personal recollections on theoretical particle physics in the years when the
Standard Theory was formed. In the background, the remarkable development of
Italian theoretical physics in the second part of the last century, with great
personalities like Bruno Touschek, Raoul Gatto, Nicola Cabibbo and their
schools.

Students from statistically underrepresented minority (URM) groups and women
earn a smaller fraction of undergraduate and graduate degrees in most physical
sciences, particularly physics. This underrepresentation is also prevalent at
the faculty level and in higher administration roles at most physics
departments, universities, and national laboratories. This proceedings
summarizes a presentation that presented statistics on participation in
physical sciences, and discussed the outcomes of initiatives such as Bridge
Programs which aim to improve diversity in physics graduate programs.

There is merely a short note on the selected issues of neutrino
electromagnetic properties with focus on effects of new physics. The meaning of
"new physics" is twofold: 1) a massive neutrino have nonzero electromagnetic
properties that can be considered as manifestation of new physics beyond the
Standard Model, and 2) in studies of neutrinos electromagnetic interactions new
effects are predicted that can lead to new phenomena accessible for
observations.

Increasing numbers of physicists engage in research activities that address
biological questions from physics perspectives or strive to develop physics
insights from active biological processes. The on-going development and success
of such activities morph our ways of thinking about what it is to 'do
biophysics' and add to our understanding of the physics of life. Many
scientists in this research and teaching landscape are homed in physics
departments. A challenge for a hosting department is how to group, name and
structure such biophysicists to best add value to their emerging research and
teaching but also to the portfolio of the whole department. Here we discuss
these issues and speculate on strategies.

This paper deduces universal uncertainty principle in different quantum
theories after about one century of proposing uncertainty principle by
Heisenberg, i.e., new universal uncertainty principle of any orders of physical
quantities in quantum physics, overcomes the difficulty that current quantum
computer, quantum communication, quantum control, quantum mechanics and so on
theories cannot give exact values of general uncertainty of any orders of
physical quantities, further gives all relevant different expressions of the
universal uncertainty principle and their applications. In fact, our studies
are consistent with current theories and physical factual experiments, e.g.,
relevant to hydrogen atom physics experiments. Using the new universal
uncertainty principle, people can give all applications to atomic physics,
quantum mechanics, quantum communication, quantum calculations, quantum
computer and so on.

This is a review of Hossenfelder's book, 'Lost in Math: How Beauty Leads
Physics Astray'. The book gives a breezy exposition of the present situation in
fundamental physics, and raises important questions: both about the content of
the physics, and the way physics research is organized. I first state my main
disagreements. Then, I mostly praise the book: I concentrate on Hossenfelder's
discussion of supersymmetry, naturalness and the multiverse.

The uncertainty associated with probing the quantum state is expressed as the
effective abundance (measure) of possibilities for its collapse. New kinds of
uncertainty limits entailed by quantum description of the physical system arise
in this manner.

The CosmicWatch Desktop Muon Detector is a Massachusetts Institute of
Technology (MIT) and Polish National Centre for Nuclear Research (NCBJ) based
undergraduate-level physics project that incorporates various aspects of
electronics-shop technical development. The detector was designed to be
low-power and extremely portable, which opens up a wide range of physics for
students to explore. This document describes the physics behind the Desktop
Muon Detectors and explores possible measurements that can be made with the
detectors. In particular, we explore various physical phenomena associated with
the geomagnetic field, atmospheric conditions, cosmic ray shower composition,
attenuation of particles in matter, radioactivity, and statistical properties
of Poisson processes.

This short essay traces the conceptual history of micro- and macroscopicity
in the context of physical science. By focusing on three distinct episodes
spanning five centuries, we show the scientific and philosophical meanings of
this antonym pair, despite never being far from "the small" and "the large,"
have been evolving as the frontier of science advances. We analyze the
intellectual and material impetus for these movements, and conclude that this
conceptual history reflects the changing interaction between the natural world
and humankind.

A century ago, nuclear physics entered astrophysics, giving birth to a new
field of science referred to as "Nuclear Astrophysics". With time, it developed
at an impressive pace into a vastly inter- and multidisciplinary discipline
bringing into its wake not only astronomy and cosmology, but also many other
sub-fields of physics, especially particle, solid-state and computational
physics, as well as chemistry, geology and even biology. The present
Astronuclear Physics review focusses primarily on the facets of nuclear physics
that are of relevance to astronomy and astrophysics, the theoretical aspects
being of special concern here.

The abstract notion of a Universal Turing machine cannot exist as a physical
subsystem without the introduction of noise from an external energy source.
Like all other physical systems, physical Turing machines must convert energy
sourced from an external environment into useful work, thus subjecting them to
the laws of thermodynamics. Consequently, asymptotic mathematical theorems
including those derived by Godel and Turing do not bear any consequence on
physical world because they can never be truly realised in physical systems.
Rather these theorems highlight the seemingly unbridgeable chasm between
Platonic forms (mathematics) and objects (physics).

Having been an editor for Physics Letters B (PLB) for many years I became
interested in the history of publishing, especially in particle physics (HEP).
Since PLB goes back to 1967 and an index of all PLB publications is available
online, this information was used to look at the history of PLB publications
over time. It should be noted that PLB publishes new results in particle
physics or high energy physics, nuclear physics and also in astrophysics and
cosmology. This is the start of an effort to look at all publishers that
publish research from HEP.

An important step in learning to use math in science is learning to see
physics equations as not just calculational tools, but as ways of expressing
fundamental relationships among physical quantities, of coding conceptual
information, and of organizing physics knowledge structures. In this paper I
discuss the role of basic anchor equations in introductory physics and show
some examples of how to help students learn to use them.

We describe recent work on the physics of the Higgs boson at future muon
colliders. Starting from the low energy muon collider at the Higgs boson pole
we extend our discussion to the multi-TeV muon collider and outline the physics
case for such machines about the properties of the Higgs boson and physics
beyond the Standard Model that can be possibly discovered.

Integrating physical inductive biases into machine learning can improve model
generalizability. We generalize the successful paradigm of physics-informed
learning (PIL) into a more general framework that also includes what we term
physics-augmented learning (PAL). PIL and PAL complement each other by handling
discriminative and generative properties, respectively. In numerical
experiments, we show that PAL performs well on examples where PIL is
inapplicable or inefficient.

We introduce an approach to the foundations of physics that is more in line
with the foundations of mathematics. The idea is to examine current theories
and find a set of starting physical assumptions that are sufficient to rederive
them, which is the physical equivalent of the reverse mathematics program. This
allows us to identify physical starting points (as opposed to mathematical
ones), compare their deductive power, and find those that can better serve as a
foundation for our theories.

This is a white paper on the STCF charm physics contributing to the Snowmass
2021 proceedings in the RF01 working group.

Physics-informed machine learning (PIML), referring to the combination of
prior knowledge of physics, which is the high level abstraction of natural
phenomenons and human behaviours in the long history, with data-driven machine
learning models, has emerged as an effective way to mitigate the shortage of
training data, to increase models' generalizability and to ensure the physical
plausibility of results. In this paper, we survey an abundant number of recent
works in PIML and summarize them from three aspects: (1) motivations of PIML,
(2) physics knowledge in PIML, (3) methods of physics knowledge integration in
PIML. We also discuss current challenges and corresponding research
opportunities in PIML.

In this note, as an input to the Snowmass studies, we provide a broad-brush
picture of the physics output of future colliders as a function of their center
of mass energies and luminosities. Instead of relying on precise projections of
physics reaches, which are lacking in many cases, we mainly focused on simple
benchmarks of physics yields, such as the number of Higgs boson produced. More
detailed considerations for lepton colliders are given since there have been
various recent proposals. A brief summary for hadron colliders based on a
simple scaling estimate of the physics reaches is also included.

Diophantine problems arise frequently in physics, in for example anomaly
cancellation conditions, string consistency conditions and so forth. We present
methods to solve such problems to high order on annealers that are based on the
quadratic Ising Model. This is the intrinsic framework for both quantum
annealing and for common forms of classical simulated annealing. We demonstrate
the method on so-called Taxicab numbers (discovering some apparently new ones),
and on the realistic problem of anomaly cancellation in $U(1)$ extensions of
the Standard Model.

We provide a pedagogical introduction to $N=1$ supergravity/supersymmetry in
relation to particle physics. The various steps in the construction of a
generic $N=1$ supergravity model are briefly described, and we focus on its low
energy supersymmetric limit. The conditions for supersymmetry and supergravity
breaking are investigated, and realistic mechanisms suitable for particle
physics identified. We then study the model-building aspects of `softly-broken'
supersymmetric extensions of the Standard Model and discuss several of their
phenomenological features.

The present status of Kaon physics is summarized from a theory point of view.
Focus is laid on $\Delta S=2$, $\Delta S=1$ as well as on rare Kaon decays,
where progress has been made for instance in the case of $\varepsilon_K$ and
$K_S\to \mu^+\mu^-$. Furthermore, several New Physics scenarios are discussed
in the context of rare Kaon decays and other Kaon observables.

In the 60s of the last century the few courses of History of physics in
Physics degree were held by scholars who, apart from a few exceptions, did not
have a specific research background in the field. Some activities, books,
social movements in the civil society allowed in the 70's the entry, among
Physics courses, of teachings in History of physics held by scholars
specifically trained for that job since their degree. A second change happened
in the 90s when many difficulties forced physicists to allocate fewer and fewer
resources to the History of their discipline. I'll outline the features of the
two periods and the efforts of Historians to find a proper space in Physics
departments.

Various panel sessions were organized to highlight the activities of the
African Strategy for Fundamental and Applied Physics (ASFAP) Working Groups
during the second African Conference of Fundamental and Applied Physics
(ACP2021) that was held in March 7-11, 2022. A joint session was devoted to
highlight the activities assigned to the Light Sources, Accelerators,
Biophysics, Earth Sciences, Atomic and Molecular Physics, and Condensed Matter
and Materials Physics Working Groups. Major outcomes and recommendations are
demonstrated and deliberated in this contribution.

Algebraic quantum field theory is a general mathematical framework for
relativistic quantum physics, based on the theory of operator algebras. It
comprises all observable and operational aspects of a theory. In its framework
the entire state space of a theory is covered, starting from the vacuum over
arbitrary configurations of particles to thermal equilibrium and
non-equilibrium states. It provides a solid foundation for structural analysis,
the physical interpretation of the theory and the development of new
constructive schemes. This survey is commissioned by the Encyclopedia of
Mathematical Physics, edited by M. Bojowald and R.J. Szabo. It is to be
published by the Elsevier publishing house.

You might've heard about various mathematical properties of scattering
amplitudes such as analyticity, sheets, branch cuts, discontinuities, etc. What
does it all mean? In these lectures, we'll take a guided tour through simple
scattering problems that will allow us to directly trace such properties back
to physics. We'll learn how different analytic features of the S-matrix are
really consequences of causality, locality of interactions, unitary
propagation, and so on.
  These notes are based on a series of lectures given in Spring 2023 at the
Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton and the Higgs Centre School of
Theoretical Physics in Edinburgh.

Since 2005, the global flagship of outreach activities in high-energy physics
have been the International Particle Physics Masterclasses. We report on a
survey performed among the participants from Slovakia and the Czech Republic,
where we have studied the impact of Masterclasses on their further careers and
their attitude towards science and especially particle physics. More than a
half of our respondents does not work in science or research and development.
However, most of them report positive shift in their attitude towards science.
A positive nudge to physics career is indicated among those being open to such
a possibility.

The Ornstein-Zernike (OZ) equation is the fundamental equation for pair
correlation function computations in the modern integral equation theory for
liquids. In this work, machine learning models, notably physics-informed neural
networks and physics-informed neural operator networks, are explored to solve
the OZ equation. The physics-informed machine learning models demonstrate great
accuracy and high efficiency in solving the forward and inverse OZ problems of
various bulk fluids. The results highlight the significant potential of
physics-informed machine learning for applications in thermodynamic state
theory.

We motivate the use of quantum algorithms in particle physics and provide a
brief overview of the most recent applications at high-energy colliders. In
particular, we discuss in detail how a quantum approach reduces the complexity
of jet clustering algorithms, such as anti-kT , and show how quantum algorithms
efficiently identify causal configurations of multiloop Feynman diagrams. We
also present a quantum integration algorithm, called QFIAE, which is
successfully applied to the evaluation of one-loop Feynman integrals in a
quantum simulator or in a real quantum device.

We present outcomes from curricular changes made to an introductory
calculus-based physics course whose audience is primarily life science majors,
the majority of whom plan to pursue post-baccalaureate studies in medical and
scientific fields. During the 2011-12 academic year, we implemented a "Physics
of the life sciences" curriculum centered on a draft textbook that takes a
novel approach to teaching physics to life science majors. In addition,
substantial revisions were made to the homework and hands-on components of the
course to emphasize the relationship between physics and the life sciences and
to help the students to learn to apply physical intuition to life
science-oriented problems. Student learning and attitudinal outcomes were
assessed both quantitatively, using standard physics education research
instruments, and qualitatively, using student surveys and a series of
post-semester interviews. Students experienced high conceptual learning gains,
comparable to other active learning-based physics courses. Qualitatively, a
substantial fraction of interviewed students reported an increased interest in
physics relative to the beginning of the semester. Furthermore, more than half
of students self-reported that they could now relate physics topics to their
majors and future careers, with interviewed subjects demonstrating a high level
of ability to come up with examples of how physics affects living organisms and
how it helped them to better understand content presented in courses in their
major.

Physics community is generally concerned about the decrease in Physics
enrollment. Due to the deficiency of specially qualified Physics teachers, high
school Physics is sometimes taught by general science teachers who may not be
trained to motivate students to study Physics. These students will neither be
inclined to register into Physics courses nor plan to teach Physics. They will
be unable to find out the relevance of Physics with daily life, its application
in different disciplines and even the job market. In this situation, we have to
carefully make the existing Physics programs more attractive, instead of
closing them down. We discuss teaching methodology and course requirements that
will help to make Physics programs more attractive and preferable for incoming
students. However, we emphasize to set our goals and plan to increase
enrollment in parallel steps such as proper information about the program, help
in developing a required mathematics background, offering scholarships,
teaching assistantship or internships and involving them in research. Also we
need to make Physics programs more interesting with the interdisciplinary
courses and other electives which students may like. We will have to work on
the retention rate to maintain enrollment without compromising on standards.
However, we still have to develop a complete understanding of the problem and
keep looking for a better solution.

Too often, physics students are beset by feelings of failure and isolation
rather than experiencing the creative joys of discovery that physics has to
offer. This dissertation research was founded on the desire of a teacher to
make physics class exciting and motivating to his students. This work explores
how various aspects of learning environments interact with student motivation.
This work uses qualitative and quantitative methods to explore how students are
motivated to engage in physics and how they feel about themselves while
engaging in physics. The collection of four studies in this dissertation
culminates in a sociocultural perspective on motivation and identity. This
perspective uses two extremes of how students experience physics as a lens for
understanding motivation: fear and self-preservation versus integrity and
self-expression. Rather than viewing motivation as a property of the student,
or viewing students as inherently interested or disinterested in physics, the
theoretical perspective on motivation and identity helps examine features of
the learning environments that determine how students experience themselves
through physics class. This perspective highlights the importance of feeling a
sense of belonging in the context of physics and the power that teachers have
in shaping student motivations through the construction of their classroom
learning environments. Findings demonstrate how different ways that students
experience themselves in physics class impact their performance and interest in
physics. This dissertation concludes with a set of design principles that can
foster integration and integrity among students in physics learning
environments.

Students' attitudes and approaches to problem solving in physics can
profoundly influence their motivation to learn and development of expertise. We
developed and validated an Attitudes and Approaches to Problem Solving survey
by expanding the Attitudes towards Problem Solving survey of Marx and Cummings
and administered it to physics graduate students. Comparison of their responses
to the survey questions about problem solving in their own graduate level
courses vs. problem solving in the introductory physics courses provides
insight into their expertise in introductory and graduate level physics. The
physics graduate students' responses to the survey questions were also compared
with those of introductory physics and astronomy students and physics faculty.
We find that, even for problem solving in introductory physics, graduate
students' responses to some survey questions are less expert-like than those of
the physics faculty. Comparison of survey responses of graduate students and
introductory students for problem solving in introductory physics suggests that
graduate students' responses are in general more expert-like than those of
introductory students. However, survey responses suggest that graduate-level
problem solving by graduate students on several measures has remarkably similar
trends to introductory-level problem solving by introductory students.

We take a fresh look at analogue-digital systems focussing on their physical
behaviour. We model a general analogue-digital system as a physical process
controlled by an algorithm by viewing the physical process as physical oracle
to the algorithm, generalising the notion of Turing. We develop a theoretical
framework for the specification and analysis of such systems that combines five
semantical notions: actual physical behaviour, measured behaviour, predicted
behaviour, computed behaviour and exceptional behaviour. Next, we consider the
more general and applicable situation of complex processes that exhibit several
distinct modes of physical behaviour. Thus, for their design, a set of
mathematical models may be needed, each model having its own domain of
application and representing a particular mode of behaviour or operation of
physical reality with its own physical oracle. The models may be of disparate
kinds and, furthermore, not all physical modes may even have a reliable model.
We address the questions: How do we specify algorithms and software that
monitor or govern a complex physical situation with many physical modes? How do
we specify a portfolio of modes, and the computational problem of transitioning
from using one mode to another mode as physical behaviour changes? We propose a
general definition of an analogue-digital system with modes, and show how any
diverse set of modes, with or without models, can be bound together, and how
the transitions between modes can be determined, by constructing a data type
and mode selection functions. We illustrate the ideas of physical modes and our
theory by reflecting on simple examples, including driverless racing cars.

This report is the summary of the Eighth International Conference on Quarks
and Nuclear Physics (QNP2018). Hadron and nuclear physics is the field to
investigate high-density quantum many-body systems bound by strong
interactions. It is intended to clarify matter generation of universe and
properties of quark-hadron many-body systems. The QNP is an international
conference which covers a wide range of hadron and nuclear physics, including
quark and gluon structure of hadrons, hadron spectroscopy, hadron interactions
and nuclear structure, hot and cold dense matter, and experimental facilities.
First, I introduce the current status of the hadron and nuclear physics field
related to this conference. Next, the organization of the conference is
explained, and a brief overview of major recent developments is discussed by
selecting topics from discussions at the plenary sessions. They include
rapidly-developing field of gravitational waves and nuclear physics, hadron
interactions and nuclear structure with strangeness, lattice QCD, hadron
spectroscopy, nucleon structure, heavy-ion physics, hadrons in nuclear medium,
and experimental facilities of EIC, GSI-FAIR, JLab, J-PARC, Super-KEKB, and
others. Nuclear physics is at a fortunate time to push various projects at
these facilities. However, we should note that the projects need to be
developed together with related studies in other fields such as gravitational
physics, astrophysics, condensed-matter physics, particle physics, and
fundamental quantum physics.

Ocean current, fluid mechanics, and many other spatio-temporal physical
dynamical systems are essential components of the universe. One key
characteristic of such systems is that certain physics laws -- represented as
ordinary/partial differential equations (ODEs/PDEs) -- largely dominate the
whole process, irrespective of time or location. Physics-informed learning has
recently emerged to learn physics for accurate prediction, but they often lack
a mechanism to leverage localized spatial and temporal correlation or rely on
hard-coded physics parameters. In this paper, we advocate a physics-coupled
neural network model to learn parameters governing the physics of the system,
and further couple the learned physics to assist the learning of recurring
dynamics. A spatio-temporal physics-coupled neural network (ST-PCNN) model is
proposed to achieve three goals: (1) learning the underlying physics
parameters, (2) transition of local information between spatio-temporal
regions, and (3) forecasting future values for the dynamical system. The
physics-coupled learning ensures that the proposed model can be tremendously
improved by using learned physics parameters, and can achieve good long-range
forecasting (e.g., more than 30-steps). Experiments, using simulated and
field-collected ocean current data, validate that ST-PCNN outperforms existing
physics-informed models.

Accurate prediction of physical interaction outcomes is a crucial component
of human intelligence and is important for safe and efficient deployments of
robots in the real world. While there are existing vision-based intuitive
physics models that learn to predict physical interaction outcomes, they mostly
focus on generating short sequences of future frames based on physical
properties (e.g. mass, friction and velocity) extracted from visual inputs or a
latent space. However, there is a lack of intuitive physics models that are
tested on long physical interaction sequences with multiple interactions among
different objects. We hypothesize that selective temporal attention during
approximate mental simulations helps humans in physical interaction outcome
prediction. With these motivations, we propose a novel scheme: Physical
Interaction Prediction via Mental Simulation with Span Selection (PIP). It
utilizes a deep generative model to model approximate mental simulations by
generating future frames of physical interactions before employing selective
temporal attention in the form of span selection for predicting physical
interaction outcomes. To evaluate our model, we further propose the large-scale
SPACE+ dataset of synthetic videos with long sequences of three prime physical
interactions in a 3D environment. Our experiments show that PIP outperforms
human, baseline, and related intuitive physics models that utilize mental
simulation. Furthermore, PIP's span selection module effectively identifies the
frames indicating key physical interactions among objects, allowing for added
interpretability.

The present issue of the series <<Modern Problems in Mathematical Physics>>
represents the Proceedings of the Students Training Contest Olympiad in
Mathematical and Theoretical Physics and includes the statements and the
solutions of the problems offered to the participants. The contest Olympiad was
held on May 21st-24th, 2010 by Scientific Research Laboratory of Mathematical
Physics of Samara State University, Steklov Mathematical Institute of Russia's
Academy of Sciences, and Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology (State
University) in cooperation.
  The present Proceedings is intended to be used by the students of physical
and mechanical-mathematical departments of the universities, who are interested
in acquiring a deeper knowledge of the methods of mathematical and theoretical
physics, and could be also useful for the persons involved in teaching
mathematical and theoretical physics.

Physics is introduced as a basic matter in the curricula of professional
schools (i.e. schools for agriculture, electronic or chemistry experts).
Students meet physics in the early years of their training and then continue in
vocational subjects where many physics' topics can be useful. Rarely, however,
the connection between physics and professional matters is quite explicit.
Students often feel physics as boring and useless, i.e. very far from their
interests. In these schools it is almost always required the physics lab, but
it does not always exist. The physics teachers of a local Agricultural
Technical Institute asked us to realize a learning path in laboratory for their
students, since in their school the physics lab was missing. This institute is
the only public school in the Chianti area specializing in Viticulture and
Enology, and attending a further year post diploma, allows the achievement of
the qualification of Enologist. We report a learning path realized starting
from thermal equilibrium to a full understanding of the measures made with the
Malligand's ebulliometer, used for determining the alcoholic strength (alcohol
concentration by volume) of an alcoholic beverage and water/alcohol solutions
in general. The aim was to make interesting measures of physical quantities,
calorimetry and state transitions connecting them to the functioning of an
instrument that students use in their professional career. The feedback of
students and the interests of their teachers convinced us to go further in this
way. We intend in the next future to involve teachers of physics and vocational
subjects in the design of a physics curriculum spread over two years in which
the main physics topics will be introduced to explain the functioning of tools
and equipment used, normally, in the winery.

Based upon previous discussions on the structure of compact stars geared
towards undergraduate physics students, a real experiment involving two
upper-level undergraduate physics students, a beginning physics graduate, and
two advanced graduate students was conducted. A recent addition to the physics
curriculum at Florida State University, "The Physics of Stars", sparked quite a
few students' interests in the subject matter involving stellar structure.
This, coupled with "Stars and Statistical Physics" by Balian and Blaizot and
"Neutron Stars for Undergraduates" by Silbar and Reddy, is the cornerstone of
this small research group who tackled solving the structure equations for
compact objects in the Summer of 2004. Through the use of a simple
finite-difference algorithm coupled to Microsoft Excel and Maple, solutions to
the equations for stellar structure are presented in the Newtonian regime
appropriate to the physics of white dwarf stars.

In the paper it is shown that, even without a knowledge of the concrete form
of the equations of mathematical physics and field theories, with the help of
skew-symmetric differential forms one can see specific features of the
equations of mathematical physics, the relation between mathematical physics
and field theory, to understand the mechanism of evolutionary processes that
develop in material media and lead to emergency of physical structures forming
physical fields. This discloses a physical meaning of such concepts like
"conservation laws", "postulates" and "causality" and gives answers to many
principal questions of mathematical physics and general field theory.
  In present paper, beside the exterior forms, the skew-symmetric differential
forms, whose basis (in contrast to the exterior forms) are deforming manifolds,
are used. Mathematical apparatus of such differential forms(which were named
evolutionary ones) includes nontraditional elements like nonidentical relations
and degenerate transformations and this enables one to describe discrete
transitions, quantum steps, evolutionary processes, and generation of various
structures.

A general principle of `causal duality' for physical systems, lying at the
base of representation theorems for both compound and evolving systems, is
proved; formally it is encoded in a quantaloidal setting. Other particular
examples of quantaloids and quantaloidal morphisms appear naturally within this
setting; as in the case of causal duality, they originate from primitive
physical reasonings on the lattices of properties of physical systems.
Furthermore, an essentially dynamical operational foundation for studying
physical systems is outlined; complementary as it is to the existing static
operational foundation, it leads to the natural axiomatization of `causal
duality' in operational quantum logic.

Charles Bennett's measure of physical complexity for classical objects,
namely logical-depth, is used in order to prove that a chaotic classical
dynamical system is not physical complex. The natural measure of physical
complexity for quantum objects, quantum logical-depth, is then introduced in
order to prove that a chaotic quantum dynamical system is not physical complex
too.

The space-time geometry is considered to be a physical geometry, i.e. a
geometry described completely by the world function. All geometrical concepts
and geometric objects are taken from the proper Euclidean geometry. They are
expressed via the Euclidean world function \sigma_E and declared to be concepts
and objects of any physical geometry, provided the Euclidean world function
\sigma_E is replaced by the world function \sigma of the physical geometry in
question. The set of physical geometries is more powerful, than the set of
Riemannian geometries, and one needs to choose a true space-time geometry. In
general, the physical geometry is multivariant (there are many vectors which
are equivalent to a given vector, but are not equivalent between themselves).
The multivariance admits one to describe quantum effects as geometric effects
and to consider existence of elementary particles as a geometrical problem,
when the possibility of the physical existence of an elementary geometric
object in the form of a physical body is determined by the space-time geometry.
Multivariance admits one to describe discrete and continuous geometries, using
the same technique. A use of physical geometry admits one to realize the
geometrical approach to the quantum theory and to the theory of elementary
particles.

The solution to the Euler-Lagrange equation is an extremal functional.To
understand that the functional is stationary at local extrema (maxima or
minima), we propose a physics experiment that involves using soap film to form
a catenoid.
  A catenoid is a surface that is formed between two coaxial circular rings and
is classified mathematically as a minimal surface.Using soap film, we create
catenoids between two rings and characterize the catenoid in-situ while varying
distance between rings. The shape of the soap film is very interesting and can
be explained using dynamic mechanics. By observing catenoid, physics students
can observe local extrema phenomena.
  We stress that in-situ observation of soap film catenoids is an appropriate
physics experiment that combines theory and experimentation.

According to the Church-Turing Thesis (CTT), effective formal behaviours can
be simulated by Turing machines; this has naturally led to speculation that
physical systems can also be simulated computationally. But is this wider claim
true, or do behaviours exist which are strictly hypercomputational? Several
idealised computational models are known which suggest the possibility of
hypercomputation, some Newtonian, some based on cosmology, some on quantum
theory. While these models' physicality is debatable, they nonetheless throw
into question the validity of extending CTT to include all physical systems. We
consider the physicality of hypercomputational behaviour from first principles,
by showing that quantum theory can be reformulated in a way that explains why
physical behaviours can be regarded as 'computing something' in the standard
computational state-machine sense. While this does not rule out the physicality
of hypercomputation, it strongly limits the forms it can take. Our model also
has physical consequences; in particular, the continuity of motion and arrow of
time become theorems within the basic model.

Historically it happen so that in branches of physics connected with field
theory and of physics of material systems (continuous media) the concept of
"conservation laws" has a different meaning. In field theory "conservation
laws" are those that claim the existence of conservative physical quantities or
objects. These are conservation laws for physical fields. In contrast to that
in physics (and mechanics) of material systems the concept of "conservation
laws" relates to conservation laws for energy, linear momentum, angular
momentum, and mass that establish the balance between the change of physical
quantities and external action.
  In the paper presented it is proved that there exist a connection between of
conservation laws for physical fields and those for material systems. This
points to the fact that physical fields are connected with material systems.
Such results has an unique significance for field theories. This enables one to
substantiate many basic principles of field theories, such as, for example, the
unity of existing field theories and the causality. The specific feature of
field theory equations, namely, their connection to the equations for material
systems, is elicited. Such results have been obtained by using skew-symmetric
differential forms, which reflect the properties of conservation laws.

Our notions of what is physically 'real' have long been based on the idea
that the real is what is immediately apprehended, that is the local or
observable, the physically tangible, though there has always been an
alternative philosophical notion that the 'real' is some kind of ontological
structure beyond immediate apprehension, and so inaccessible through physics.
However, quantum mechanics, with its intrinsic nonlocal correlations, has
seemingly left us with a dilemma by showing that fundamental physical theories
cannot be both real and local. Reality cannot be reconstructed as a
deterministic projection from physical observations. Many people think that the
problem lies with quantum mechanics, but, in fact, it is more likely to be a
result of unrealistic expectations. We have assumed that fundamental physics
ought to be compatible with normal (macroscopic) experience. If, however, we go
beyond our current high-level physical theories to the basic elements from
which they are constructed, we see that a pattern emerges that gives us a very
different and much more coherent understanding of what is meant by physical
'reality'.

Physicists become acquainted with special functions early in their studies.
Consider our perennial model, the harmonic oscillator, for which we need
Hermite functions, or the Laguerre functions in quantum mechanics. Here we
choose a particular number theoretical function, the Riemann zeta function and
examine its influence in the realm of physics and also how physics may be
suggestive for the resolution of one of mathematics' most famous unconfirmed
conjectures, the Riemann Hypothesis. Does physics hold an essential key to the
solution for this more than hundred-year-old problem? In this work we examine
numerous models from different branches of physics, from classical mechanics to
statistical physics, where this function plays an integral role. We also see
how this function is related to quantum chaos and how its pole-structure
encodes when particles can undergo Bose-Einstein condensation at low
temperature. Throughout these examinations we highlight how physics can perhaps
shed light on the Riemann Hypothesis. Naturally, our aim could not be to be
comprehensive, rather we focus on the major models and aim to give an informed
starting point for the interested Reader.

The large number of published articles in physics journals under the title
"Comments on ..." and "Reply to ..." is indicative that the conceptual
understanding of physical phenomena is very elusive and hard to grasp even to
experts, but it has not stopped the development of Physics. In fact, from the
history of the development of Physics one quickly becomes aware that,
regardless of the state of conceptual understanding, without quantitative
reasoning Physics would have not reached the state of development it has today.
Correspondingly, quantitative reasoning and problem solving skills are a
desirable outcomes from the process of teaching and learning of physics. Thus,
supported by results from published research, we will show evidence that a well
structured problem solving strategy taught as a dynamical process offers a
feasible way for students to learn physics quantitatively and conceptually,
while helping them to reach the state of an Adaptive Expert highly skillful on
innovation and efficiency, a desired outcome from the perspective of a
Preparation for Future Learning approach of the process of teaching and
learning Physics effectively.

The educational use of video and multimedia is increasing rapidly in
secondary and higher education across all disciplines. Videos for physics
education can be found in many universities and other educational institutions
websites all over the world. In the area of experimental physics, the available
videos demonstrate mainly physical phenomena or physics experiments and only
few of them allow for the quantitative estimation of physical parameters. In
this work, we present characteristic videos of an ongoing project aiming at the
development of a collection of educational videos that guide students to
measure data and to analyze them in order to calculate physical quantities.
These videos can be used for physics teaching, as a demonstration, as a
supplementary educational tool for the students pre lab preparation and also in
the physics lab, if the necessary equipment is not available or in case of time
consuming measurements. The pilot use of a video related to the measurement of
the lead attenuation coefficient in the lab is presented accompanied by the
student assessment. The students favor the use of video mainly as a
supplementary tool for their pre lab preparation and not as a substitute of the
real experiment.

Astroparticle physics and cosmology allow us to scan the universe through
multiple messengers. It is the combination of these probes that improves our
understanding of the universe, both in its composition and its dynamics. Unlike
other areas in science, research in astroparticle physics has a real
originality in detection techniques, in infrastructure locations, and in the
observed physical phenomenon that is not created directly by humans. It is
these features that make the minimisation of statistical and systematic errors
a perpetual challenge. In all these projects, the environment is turned into a
detector medium or a target. The atmosphere is probably the environment
component the most common in astroparticle physics and requires a continuous
monitoring of its properties to minimise as much as possible the systematic
uncertainties associated. This paper introduces the different atmospheric
effects to take into account in astroparticle physics measurements and provides
a non-exhaustive list of techniques and instruments to monitor the different
elements composing the atmosphere. A discussion on the close link between
astroparticle physics and Earth sciences ends this paper.

The Asia-Europe-Pacific School of High-Energy Physics is intended to give
young physicists an introduction to the theoretical aspects of recent advances
in elementary particle physics. These proceedings contain lectures on quantum
field theory, quantum chromodynamics, flavour physics and CP-violation, physics
beyond the Standard Model, neutrino physics, particle cosmology, heavy-ion
physics, as well as a presentation of recent results from the Large Hadron
Collider (LHC), practical statistics for particle physicists and a short
introduction to the principles of particle physics instrumentation.

This work examines how experiences in one disciplinary domain (biology) can
impact the relationship a student builds with another domain (physics). We
present a model for disciplinary relationships using the constructs of
identity, affect, and epistemology. With these constructs we examine an
ethnographic case study of a student who experienced a significant shift in her
relationship with physics. We describe how this shift demonstrates (1) a
stronger identification with physics, (2) a more mixed affective stance towards
physics, and (3) more expert-like ways of knowing in physics. We argue that
recruiting the students relationship with biology into experiences of learning
physics impacted her relationship with physics as well as her sense of how
physics and biology are linked.

The holographic principle states that the information about a volume of a
system is encoded on the boundary surface of the volume. Holography appears in
many branches of physics, such as optics, electromagnetism, many-body physics,
quantum gravity, and string theory. Here we show that holography is also an
underlying principle in thermodynamics, a most important foundation of physics.
The thermodynamics of a system is fully determined by its partition function.
We prove that the partition function of a physical system is an analytic
function of all the physical parameters, and therefore its values in any area
on the complex plane of a physical parameter are uniquely determined by its
values along the boundary. The thermodynamic holography has applications in
studying thermodynamics of nano-scale systems (such as molecule engines,
nano-generators and macromolecules) and provides a new approach to many-body
physics.

The Physical Web is a generic term describes interconnection of physical
objects and web. The Physical Web lets present physical objects in a web. There
are different ways to do that and we will discuss them in our paper. Usually,
the web presentation for a physical object could be implemented with the help
of mobile devices. The basic idea behind the Physical Web is to navigate and
control physical objects in the world surrounding mobile devices with the help
of web technologies. Of course, there are different ways to identify and
enumerate physical objects. In this paper, we describe the existing models as
well as related challenges. In our analysis, we will target objects enumeration
and navigation as well as data retrieving and programming for the Physical Web.

I believe that most teachers develop a belief in a set of pedagogical
practices. As we teach, we try different ways to teach topics and then judge
how successful the methods were. After several years, we have a compilation of
techniques in our teaching toolbox. New teachers are at a disadvantage because
they have fewer prior experiences to draw upon. Luckily, there is a group of
physicists and physics educators who are researching how students learn
physics, and have been able to show evidence of effective education practices
in physics. They field of study is called PER: Physics Education Research. I
asked Chandralekha Singh, one of the leaders in PER, to summarize some of the
most relevant PER findings and her response follows.

Laboratory experiments provide a valuable complement to explore the
fundamental physics of space plasmas without the limitations inherent to
spacecraft measurements. Specifically, experiments overcome the restriction
that spacecraft measurements are made at only one (or a few) points in space,
enable greater control of the plasma conditions and applied perturbations, can
be reproducible, and are orders of magnitude less expensive than launching
spacecraft. Here I highlight key open questions about the physics of space
plasmas and identify the aspects of these problems that can potentially be
tackled in laboratory experiments. Several past successes in laboratory space
physics provide concrete examples of how complementary experiments can
contribute to our understanding of physical processes at play in the solar
corona, solar wind, planetary magnetospheres, and outer boundary of the
heliosphere. I present developments on the horizon of laboratory space physics,
identifying velocity space as a key new frontier, highlighting new and enhanced
experimental facilities, and showcasing anticipated developments to produce
improved diagnostics and innovative analysis methods. A strategy for future
laboratory space physics investigations will be outlined, with explicit
connections to specific fundamental plasma phenomena of interest.

Physics education research has probed for the relevance of physics in
students' everyday lives. Attitudinal and epistemological surveys have asked
students if they think of or use physics in their daily lives. We have
previously documented how it is uncommon that our life science students
describe using or even seeing physics in their daily life (Nair, 2018). This
result was unsurprising and aligns with previous scholarship of students
majoring in disciplines outside of physics; we have argued that it is
optimistic for scholars to expect students with disciplinary homes outside of
physics to see their experiences through a lens of physics. Methodologically,
we searched for a contrasting case (Sam). Sam is majoring in the life sciences
and articulates moments where she uses physics to reason through everyday
phenomena. We explore the ways in which courses can support students like Sam
to find physics relevant to their everyday experiences.

This paper proposes a physics-guided recurrent neural network model (PGRNN)
that combines RNNs and physics-based models to leverage their complementary
strengths and improve the modeling of physical processes. Specifically, we show
that a PGRNN can improve prediction accuracy over that of physical models,
while generating outputs consistent with physical laws, and achieving good
generalizability. Standard RNNs, even when producing superior prediction
accuracy, often produce physically inconsistent results and lack
generalizability. We further enhance this approach by using a pre-training
method that leverages the simulated data from a physics-based model to address
the scarcity of observed data. The PGRNN has the flexibility to incorporate
additional physical constraints and we incorporate a density-depth
relationship. Both enhancements further improve PGRNN performance. Although we
present and evaluate this methodology in the context of modeling the dynamics
of temperature in lakes, it is applicable more widely to a range of scientific
and engineering disciplines where mechanistic (also known as process-based)
models are used, e.g., power engineering, climate science, materials science,
computational chemistry, and biomedicine.

The Langlands program is a vast mathematical projection linking number theory
and geometry. In high-energy physics, a connection with mirror symmetry has
been suggested in string theory, but it has been little studied in low-energy
physics. In the framework of the Langlands program, we present a unified
description of the integer and fractional quantum Hall effect and the duality
found in the fractal nature of the energy spectrum of two-dimensional block
electrons, statistical physics, and quantum computation. The new unified view
of existing dualism presented in this paper raises the entirely new question of
how each theory of physics is connected as a piece of the Langlands program.

The highlights of the recent activities and physics results leading up to the
summer of 2018 from the Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS) experiment at the CERN
Large Hadron Collider (LHC) are presented here. The CMS experiment has a very
wide-ranging physics program, and only a very limited subset of the physics
analyses being performed at CMS are discussed here, consisting of several
important results from the analysis of proton-proton collision data at
center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV. These include important analyses of Higgs
boson physics, with the highlight being the first observation of the
$\mathrm{t\bar{t}H}$ production of the Higgs boson, along with analyses
pertaining to precision standard model measurements, top quark physics, with
the single top production cross-section measurement, and flavor physics, with
the important observation of $\chi_{b}$(3P) states. Additionally, important
searches for physics beyond the standard model are also presented.

Several philosophical problems arising from the physics of consciousness,
including identity, duplication, teleportation, simulation, self-location, and
the Boltzmann Brain problem, hinge on one of the most deeply held but
unnecessary convictions of physicalism: the assumption that brain states and
their corresponding conscious states can in principle be copied. In this paper
I will argue against this assumption by attempting to prove the Unique History
Theorem, which states, essentially, that conscious correlations to underlying
quantum mechanical measurement events must increase with time and that every
conscious state uniquely determines its history from an earlier conscious
state. By assuming only that consciousness arises from an underlying physical
state, I will argue that the physical evolution from a first physical state
giving rise to a conscious state to a second physical state giving rise to a
later conscious state is unique. Among the consequences of this theorem are
that: consciousness is not algorithmic and a conscious state cannot be uploaded
to or simulated by a digital computer; a conscious state cannot be copied by
duplicating a brain or any other physical state; and a conscious state cannot
be repeated or created de novo. These conclusions shed light on the physical
nature of consciousness by rendering moot a variety of seemingly paradoxical
philosophy and science fiction problems.

In glaring contrast to its indisputable century-old experimental success, the
ultimate objects and meaning of quantum physics remain a matter of vigorous
debate among physicists and philosophers of science. This article attempts to
shed new light on the debate. It relies upon two comments by Albert Einstein on
his general approach to physical theories. I draw their consequences for the
definition of a physical theory's ontology, and next for the ontology of
quantum physics - i.e. what it may ultimately be about. The quantum ontology
thus derived appears to be strictly limited to evolving experimental contexts
and instantaneous measurement outcomes, which are to be understood,
respectively, as mere potential measurement outcomes and actual ones. The
notions of material body in particular and physical system in general are
absent from this ontology, hence the vanishing of Schroedinger's cat and EPR
paradoxes, as well as of the quantum measurement problem. Apart from its
ability to clear up well-known conundrums, this ontology reveals what quantum
physics may fundamentally be - i.e. its possible ultimate meaning - namely a
theory of general relativity of experimental context. On this basis, I conclude
with a new conception of objectivity in the sciences of nature.

This report explains the basic theory and common terminology of quantum
physics without assuming any knowledge of physics. It was written by a group of
applied mathematicians while they were reading up on the subject. The intended
audience consists of applied mathematicians, computer scientists, or anyone
else who wants to improve their understanding of quantum physics. We assume
that the reader is familiar with fundamental concepts of linear algebra,
differential equations, and to some extent the theory of Hilbert spaces. Most
of the material can be found in the book by Nielsen and Chuang and in the
lecture notes on open quantum systems by Lidar. Another excellent online source
of information is Wikipedia, even though most of its articles on quantum
physics assume a solid understanding of physics.

At many physics departments a significant fraction of teaching is in support
of engineers and scientists in other majors. These service courses are thus an
automatic crucible of interdisciplinary interaction, and at times, strife. For
example, the traditional algebra-based physics course is often considered by
both biology faculty and students as having little relevance to their
discipline. To address this issue, our multi-disciplinary multi-university team
has been negotiating the role of a physics in the curriculum of life-science
students; In NEXUS/Physics we have designed a class that stresses traditional
physics skills but in contexts chosen to better meet the needs of life science
students. Non-standard topics include chemical energy, diffusion and random
motion, and thermodynamics with careful discussions of entropy, enthalpy, and
Gibbs free energy. Explorations into how physics intertwines with an engineer's
curriculum suggests places where analogous negotiations could lead to
substantial modifications of physics courses for engineers that substantially
enhance their value for engineering students.

This book represents a continuation, an elaboration, and possibly a clear
explanation of the ideas which were expounded in the previous book Time and
Methods in Environmental Interfaces Modeling (henceforth abbreviated as TM,
Mihailovic et al 2016). In that book as well as in whole of our published
scientific work we were either implicitly or explicitly driven by a need to
understand how the space between the human mind and observed physical reality
is bridged. Here we use synonymously the terms physical reality and reality
since the reality is all of physical existence, and concepts related to it as
opposed to those products of our mind which remain on the level of mind.
Relying on that book we add our new experiences in research in which physics
plays a dominant role. To these experiences we attached some epistemological
features as well as a view of physics through the optics of Godel
Incompleteness Theorems (Godel 1931). In the Prolegomena (Chapter 1) we
consider some aspects of generality of physics (1.1 Generality of physics)

Deep neural networks have become a pervasive tool in science and engineering.
However, modern deep neural networks' growing energy requirements now
increasingly limit their scaling and broader use. We propose a radical
alternative for implementing deep neural network models: Physical Neural
Networks. We introduce a hybrid physical-digital algorithm called Physics-Aware
Training to efficiently train sequences of controllable physical systems to act
as deep neural networks. This method automatically trains the functionality of
any sequence of real physical systems, directly, using backpropagation, the
same technique used for modern deep neural networks. To illustrate their
generality, we demonstrate physical neural networks with three diverse physical
systems-optical, mechanical, and electrical. Physical neural networks may
facilitate unconventional machine learning hardware that is orders of magnitude
faster and more energy efficient than conventional electronic processors.

The main objective of this article is to describe the physics of Speed
Skydiving, world's fastest non-motorized sport practiced under FAI --
F\'ed\'eration A\'eronautique Internationale (World Air Sports Federation), a
recognized body by the International Olympic Committee -- with the help of
standard physics and mathematics taught during the first or second year for
undergraduate students in physics worldwide. Although this discipline of air
sports has been around since the middle of the 1990s and has been a part of
major international sport events, it is not yet well-known to the wider public
and has not been addressed thoroughly in physics textbooks as the physics of
various other sports.
  It is hoped that this paper will introduce and engage physics
teachers/instructors new to this air sport discipline -- pedagogically.
University or high school students may find this article helpful while studying
a subject of terminal speeds, which is thoroughly discussed herein. This
article can also serve as a background for further studies in physics of
skydiving and aerodynamics.

We study the thermodynamic quantities in the system of the $N$ independent
harmonic oscillators with different frequencies in the Tsallis statistics of
the entropic parameter $q$ ($1<q<2$) with escort average. The self-consistent
equation is derived, and the physical quantities are calculated with the
physical temperature. It is found that the number of oscillators is restricted
below $1/(q-1)$. The energy, the R\'enyi entropy, and the Tsallis entropy are
obtained by solving the self-consistent equation approximately at high physical
temperature and/or for small deviation $q-1$. The energy is $q$-independent at
high physical temperature when the physical temperature is adopted, and the
energy is proportional to the number of oscillators and physical temperature at
high physical temperature. The form of the R\'enyi entropy is similar to that
of von-Neumann entropy, and the Tsallis entropy is given through the R\'enyi
entropy. The physical temperature dependence of the Tsallis entropy is
different from that of R\'enyi entropy. The Tsallis entropy is bounded from the
above, while the R\'enyi entropy increases with the physical temperature. The
ratio of the Tsallis entropy to the R\'enyi entropy is small at high physical
temperature.

There is some evidence that conceptual inquiry-based introductory physics lab
curricula, such as RealTime Physics, may improve students' understanding of
physics concepts. Thus, these curricula may be attractive for instructors who
seek to transform their physics labs to improve student learning. However, the
impact of conceptual inquiry-based lab instruction on students' attitudes and
beliefs about experimental physics, as measured by the E-CLASS survey, is not
yet fully understood. We present data from three curricular approaches over
four semesters ($n=701$). We saw no change in E-CLASS scores in the first
implementation of a conceptual inquiry-based introductory physics lab. However,
the addition of questions that asked students to reflect on issues relating to
experimental physics was associated with E-CLASS outcomes that are comparable
to other effective approaches to lab instruction.

Heavy flavour physics provides excellent opportunities to indirectly search
for new physics at very high energy scales and to study hadron properties for
deep understanding of the strong interaction. The LHCb experiment has been
playing a leading role in the study of heavy flavour physics since the start of
the LHC operations about ten years ago, and made a range of high-precision
measurements and unexpected discoveries, which may have far-reaching
implications on the field of particle physics. This review highlights a
selection of the most influential physics results on CP violation, rare decays,
and heavy flavour production and spectroscopy obtained by LHCb using the data
collected during the first two operation periods of the LHC. The upgrade plan
of LHCb and the physics prospects are also briefly discussed.

Differentiable physics modeling combines physics models with gradient-based
learning to provide model explicability and data efficiency. It has been used
to learn dynamics, solve inverse problems and facilitate design, and is at its
inception of impact. Current successes have concentrated on general physics
models such as rigid bodies, deformable sheets, etc., assuming relatively
simple structures and forces. Their granularity is intrinsically coarse and
therefore incapable of modelling complex physical phenomena. Fine-grained
models are still to be developed to incorporate sophisticated material
structures and force interactions with gradient-based learning. Following this
motivation, we propose a new differentiable fabrics model for composite
materials such as cloths, where we dive into the granularity of yarns and model
individual yarn physics and yarn-to-yarn interactions. To this end, we propose
several differentiable forces, whose counterparts in empirical physics are
indifferentiable, to facilitate gradient-based learning. These forces, albeit
applied to cloths, are ubiquitous in various physical systems. Through
comprehensive evaluation and comparison, we demonstrate our model's
explicability in learning meaningful physical parameters, versatility in
incorporating complex physical structures and heterogeneous materials,
data-efficiency in learning, and high-fidelity in capturing subtle dynamics.

Recent studies have revealed the vulnerability of face recognition models
against physical adversarial patches, which raises security concerns about the
deployed face recognition systems. However, it is still challenging to ensure
the reproducibility for most attack algorithms under complex physical
conditions, which leads to the lack of a systematic evaluation of the existing
methods. It is therefore imperative to develop a framework that can enable a
comprehensive evaluation of the vulnerability of face recognition in the
physical world. To this end, we propose to simulate the complex transformations
of faces in the physical world via 3D-face modeling, which serves as a digital
counterpart of physical faces. The generic framework allows us to control
different face variations and physical conditions to conduct reproducible
evaluations comprehensively. With this digital simulator, we further propose a
Face3DAdv method considering the 3D face transformations and realistic physical
variations. Extensive experiments validate that Face3DAdv can significantly
improve the effectiveness of diverse physically realizable adversarial patches
in both simulated and physical environments, against various white-box and
black-box face recognition models.

Autoencoder-based reduced-order modeling (ROM) has recently attracted
significant attention, owing to its ability to capture underlying nonlinear
features. However, two critical drawbacks severely undermine its scalability to
various physical applications: entangled and therefore uninterpretable latent
variables (LVs) and the blindfold determination of latent space dimension. In
this regard, this study proposes the physics-aware ROM using only interpretable
and information-intensive LVs extracted by $\beta$-variational autoencoder,
which are referred to as physics-aware LVs throughout this paper. To extract
these LVs, their independence and information intensity are quantitatively
scrutinized in a two-dimensional transonic flow benchmark problem. Then, the
physical meanings of the physics-aware LVs are thoroughly investigated and we
confirmed that with appropriate hyperparameter $\beta$, they actually
correspond to the generating factors of the training dataset, Mach number and
angle of attack. To the best of the authors' knowledge, our work is the first
to practically confirm that $\beta$-variational autoencoder can automatically
extract the physical generating factors in the field of applied physics.
Finally, physics-aware ROM, which utilizes only physics-aware LVs, is compared
with conventional ROMs, and its validity and efficiency are successfully
verified.

Most existing deep neural networks (DNNs) are easily disturbed by slight
noise. However, there are few researches on physical attacks by deploying
lighting equipment. The light-based physical attacks has excellent covertness,
which brings great security risks to many vision-based applications (such as
self-driving). Therefore, we propose a light-based physical attack, called
adversarial laser spot (AdvLS), which optimizes the physical parameters of
laser spots through genetic algorithm to perform physical attacks. It realizes
robust and covert physical attack by using low-cost laser equipment. As far as
we know, AdvLS is the first light-based physical attack that perform physical
attacks in the daytime. A large number of experiments in the digital and
physical environments show that AdvLS has excellent robustness and covertness.
In addition, through in-depth analysis of the experimental data, we find that
the adversarial perturbations generated by AdvLS have superior adversarial
attack migration. The experimental results show that AdvLS impose serious
interference to advanced DNNs, we call for the attention of the proposed AdvLS.
The code of AdvLS is available at: https://github.com/ChengYinHu/AdvLS

To date, there is a lack of research on learning environments for pre-service
physics teachers that allow them to learn and practise diagnosing students'
conceptions that are (currently) not covered in physics education textbooks
(e.g. students' conceptions about viscosity). In this study, we developed and
piloted such a learning environment, which was implemented and piloted twice in
a seminar for pre-service physics teachers. As coping with a diagnostic process
is particularly demanding for pre-service physics teachers, our accompanying
research aims to identify learning barriers within our developed learning
environment. The results indicate that the participants experience the learning
environment with varying degrees of difficulty. One main difficulty for
pre-service physics teachers seems to be in interconnecting their content
knowledge with their pedagogical content knowledge in the diagnostic process.

I am a second-year cognitive science major, and as a student who has
completed my physical science distributive requirements, I will likely never
again come across Gauss's law. So why do I feel that the time and effort I
devoted to solving Gauss's law problems was worth it? Partly, I inherently
enjoy the learning process and the new perspective on the physical world I have
acquired by understanding electromagnetism. But I was also inspired by the ways
in which physics problems train the mind in effective problem-solving
strategies. (Of course I was -- I am a cognitive science major!) Two themes
emerged as I reflected on this realization. First, physics problems serve as
useful toy models for more complex problems outside of physics, training us in
broadly transferable problem-solving skills. Second, the physics
problem-solving process invites us to reflect on our unique cognitive and
affective processes. These themes are interconnected and complimentary. An
improved metacognitive understanding of our minds facilitates solving
progressively more complex problems, and the act of solving increasingly
difficult problems provides further insight into our minds. In what follows,
Professor Zosia Krusberg and I consider nine general lessons offered by the
physics problem-solving process.

Helping students become proficient problem solvers is a major goal of many
physics courses from introductory to advanced levels. In fact, physics has
often been used by cognitive scientists to investigate the differences between
the problem-solving strategies of expert and novice problem solvers because it
is a domain in which there is reasonably good agreement about what constitutes
good problem-solving. Since the laws of physics are encapsulated in compact
mathematical form, becoming an expert physics problem solver entails learning
to unpack and interpret those physical laws as well as being able to apply them
in diverse situations while solving problems. A physics expert must have a
well-organized knowledge structure of relevant physics and math concepts and be
able to manage cognitive load and do metacognition while solving complex
problems. In this chapter, we review foundational research on expertise in
physics problem-solving and then discuss research on instructional strategies
that promote effective problem-solving as well as challenges in changing the
instructional practices of physics instructors and teaching assistants via
professional development to promote and support effective problem-solving
approaches.

Can the laws of physics be unified. One of the most puzzling challenges is to
reconcile physics and chemistry, where molecular physics meets condensed-matter
physics, resulting from the scaling effect and dynamic fluctuation of glassy
matter at the glass transition temperature. Pioneer of condensed-matter
physics, the Nobel Prize-winning physicist Philip Warren Anderson, wrote in
1995: The deepest and most interesting unsolved problem in condensed-matter
physics is probably the theory of the nature of glassy state and the glass
transition. In 2005, the question of 'what is the nature of glassy state' was
suggested as one of the greatest scientific conundrums over the next
quarter-century for Science's 125th anniversary. However, the nature of glassy
state and its connection to the glass transition have not been fully understood
owing to the interdisciplinary complexity of physics and chemistry, where they
are governed by the physical laws at condensed-matter and molecular scales,
respectively. Therefore, study on the glass transition becomes essential to
explore the working principles of scaling effect and dynamic fluctuation in
glassy matter, as well as further reconcile the interdisciplinary complexity of
physics and chemistry.

Most, if not all, physics undergraduate degree programs include instructional
lab experiences. Physics lab instructors, both faculty and staff, are
instrumental to student learning in instructional physics labs. However, the
faculty-staff dichotomy belies the complex, varied, and multifaceted landscape
of positions that lab instructors hold in the fabrics of physics departments.
Here we present the results of a mixed methods study of the people who teach
instructional labs and their professional contexts. Recruiting physics lab
instructors across the US, we collected 84 survey responses and conducted 12
in-depth interviews about their job characteristics, professional identities,
resources, and experiences. Our investigation reveals that lab instructors vary
in terms of their official titles, job descriptions, formal duties, personal
agency, and access to resources. We also identified common themes around the
value of instructional labs, mismatched job descriptions, and a broad set of
necessary skills and expertise. Our results suggest that instructors often
occupy overlapping roles that fall in between more canonical jobs in physics
departments. By understanding the professional contexts of physics lab
instructors, the rest of the physics community can better promote and engage
with their critical work, improving laboratory learning both for students and
for the lab instructors who teach and support them.

We present Ball-AR, an augmented reality (AR) game where two players in the
same physical space attempt to hit each other with virtual dodgeballs overlaid
on the physical world. Researchers have studied AR's potential for fostering
co-located interaction and physical activity; however, they have not
investigated the impacts of physical activity and physical environment on user
experiences and interaction. We created an AR dodgeball game centered around
encouraging physical activity and harnessing the physical environment. We then
evaluated the game with five dyads to analyze the impacts of these design
choices on the quality of gameplay and interaction between players. We found
that physical activity and the shared physical space created memorable
experiences and interactions among participants, although participants desired
a more augmented and immersive experience.

The use of augmented reality (AR) allows for the integration of digital
information onto our perception of the physical world. In this article, we
present a comprehensive review of previously published literature on the
implementation of augmented reality in physics education, at the school and the
university level. Our review includes an analysis of 96 papers from the Scopus
and Eric databases, all of which were published between January 1st, 2012 and
January 1st, 2023. We evaluated how AR has been used for facilitating learning
about physics. Potential AR-based learning activities for different physics
topics have been summarized and opportunities, as well as challenges associated
with AR-based learning of physics have been reported. It has been shown that AR
technologies may facilitate physics learning by: providing complementary
visualizations, optimizing cognitive load, allowing for haptic learning,
reducing task completion time and promoting collaborative inquiry. The
potential disadvantages of using AR in physics teaching are mainly related to
the shortcomings of software and hardware technologies (e.g., camera freeze,
visualization delay) and extraneous cognitive load (e.g., paying more attention
to secondary details than to constructing target knowledge).

The detection of out-of-distribution data points is a common task in particle
physics. It is used for monitoring complex particle detectors or for
identifying rare and unexpected events that may be indicative of new phenomena
or physics beyond the Standard Model. Recent advances in Machine Learning for
anomaly detection have encouraged the utilization of such techniques on
particle physics problems. This review article provides an overview of the
state-of-the-art techniques for anomaly detection in particle physics using
machine learning. We discuss the challenges associated with anomaly detection
in large and complex data sets, such as those produced by high-energy particle
colliders, and highlight some of the successful applications of anomaly
detection in particle physics experiments.

We introduce the Continuum Physical Dataset (ContPhy), a novel benchmark for
assessing machine physical commonsense. ContPhy complements existing physical
reasoning benchmarks by encompassing the inference of diverse physical
properties, such as mass and density, across various scenarios and predicting
corresponding dynamics. We evaluated a range of AI models and found that they
still struggle to achieve satisfactory performance on ContPhy, which shows that
the current AI models still lack physical commonsense for the continuum,
especially soft-bodies, and illustrates the value of the proposed dataset. We
also introduce an oracle model (ContPRO) that marries the particle-based
physical dynamic models with the recent large language models, which enjoy the
advantages of both models, precise dynamic predictions, and interpretable
reasoning. ContPhy aims to spur progress in perception and reasoning within
diverse physical settings, narrowing the divide between human and machine
intelligence in understanding the physical world. Project page:
https://physical-reasoning-project.github.io.

Data physicalizations have gained prominence across domains, but their
environmental impact has been largely overlooked. This work addresses this gap
by investigating the interplay between sustainability and physicalization
practices. We conducted interviews with experts from diverse backgrounds,
followed by a survey to gather insights into how they approach physicalization
projects and reflect on sustainability. Our thematic analysis revealed
sustainability considerations throughout the entire physicalization life cycle
-- a framework that encompasses various stages in a physicalization's
existence. Notably, we found no single agreed-upon definition for sustainable
physicalizations, highlighting the complexity of integrating sustainability
into physicalization practices. We outline sustainability challenges and
strategies based on participants' experiences and propose the Sustainable
Physicalization Practices (SuPPra) Matrix, providing a structured approach for
designers to reflect on and enhance the environmental impact of their future
physicalizations.

Data describing the three-dimensional structure of physical networks is
increasingly available, leading to a surge of interest in network science to
explore the relationship between the shape and connectivity of physical
networks. We contribute to this effort by standardizing and analyzing 15 data
sets from different domains. Treating junction points as nodes and connections
between them as links, we divide the networks into three categories:
lattice-like networks, trees, and linked trees. We find that the degree
distribution of physical networks is bounded, with most nodes having degree one
or three. Characterizing the physical properties of links, we show that links
have an elongated shape and tend to follow a nearly straight trajectory, while
a small fraction of links follow a winding path. These typical node and link
properties must be reflected by physical network models. We also measure how
confined a link is in space by comparing its trajectory to a randomized
null-model, showing that links that are central in the abstract network tend to
be physically confined by their neighbors. The fact that the shape and
connectivity of the physical networks are intertwined highlights that their
three-dimensional layout must be taken into account to understand the evolution
and function of physical networks.

Modern particle physics experiments usually rely on highly complex and
large-scale spectrometer devices. In high energy physics experiments,
visualization helps detector design, data quality monitoring, offline data
processing, and has great potential for improving physics analysis. In addition
to the traditional physics data analysis based on statistical methods,
visualization provides unique intuitive advantages in searching for rare signal
events and reducing background noises. By applying the event display tool to
several physics analyses in the BESIII experiment, we demonstrate that
visualization can benefit potential physics discovery and improve the signal
significance. With the development of modern visualization techniques, it is
expected to play a more important role in future data processing and physics
analysis of particle physics experiments.

An outline is explained for hadron-physics projects at J-PARC, which is
considered to be one of the flagship facilities in hadron physics from 2008.
The facility provides an intensity frontier with 50 GeV proton beam for nuclear
and particle physics. It could cover a wide range of hadron physics from
strongly interacting many-body systems with an extended hadronic degree of
freedom, strangeness, to new forms of hadrons and hadronic matters. These
studies lead not only to create innovative fields of hadron physics but also,
possibly, to understand fundamental interactions because of recent progress on
AdS/CFT correspondence. At the first stage of the J-PARC operation, hadron
topics are mainly on strangeness nuclear physics such as hypernuclei, kaonic
nuclei, and possible pentaquark hadrons. Then, the studies could be extended to
exotic hadron searches, chiral dynamics in nuclear medium, structure functions,
hard exclusive processes, hadron physics in neutrino scattering, and spin
structure of the nucleon. With major upgrades of the facility, extensive
studies could be done for the nucleon spin, heavy-ion physics, and hadron
physics at a high-energy neutrino factory.

Some aspects of the physical nature of language are discussed. In particular,
physical models of language must exist that are efficiently implementable. The
existence requirement is essential because without physical models no
communication or thinking would be possible. Efficient implementability for
creating and reading language expressions is discussed and illustrated with a
quantum mechanical model. The reason for interest in language is that language
expressions can have meaning, either as an informal language or as a formal
language associated with a mathematical or physical theory. It is noted that
any universally applicable physical theory, or coherent theory of physics and
mathematics together, includes in its domain physical models of expressons for
both the informal language used to discuss the theory and expressions of the
theory itself. It follows that there must be formulas in the formal theory that
express some of their own physical properties. Inclusion of intelligent system
in the theory domain means that the theory, e.g., quantum mechanics, must
describe in some sense its own validation. Maps of language expressions into
physical states are discussed as are conditions under which such a map is a
Godel map. The possibility that language is also mathematical is very briefly
discussed.

Even though there has been a tremendous amount of research done in how to
help students learn physics, students are still coming away missing a crucial
piece of the puzzle: why bother with physics? Students learn fundamental laws
and how to calculate, but come out of a general physics course without a deep
understanding of how physics has transformed the world around them. In other
words, they get the "how" but not the "why". Studies have shown that students
leave introductory physics courses almost universally with decreased
expectations and with a more negative attitude. This paper will detail an
experiment to address this problem: a course weblog or "blog" which discusses
real-world applications of physics and engages students in discussion and
thinking outside of class. Specifically, students' attitudes towards the value
of physics and its applicability to the real-world were probed using a
26-question Likert scale survey over the course of four semesters in an
introductory physics course at a comprehensive Jesuit university. We found that
students who did not participate in the blog study generally exhibited a
deterioration in attitude towards physics as seen previously. However, students
who read, commented, and were involved with the blog maintained their initially
positive attitudes towards physics. Student response to the blog was
overwhelmingly positive, with students claiming that the blog made the things
we studied in the classroom come alive for them and seem much more relevant.

Computing is a high-level process of a physical system. Recent interest in
non-standard computing systems, including quantum and biological computers, has
brought this physical basis of computing to the forefront. There has been,
however, no consensus on how to tell if a given physical system is acting as a
computer or not; leading to confusion over novel computational devices, and
even claims that every physical event is a computation. In this paper we
introduce a formal framework that can be used to determine whether or not a
physical system is performing a computation. We demonstrate how the abstract
computational level interacts with the physical device level, drawing the
comparison with the use of mathematical models to represent physical objects in
experimental science. This powerful formulation allows a precise description of
the similarities between experiments, computation, simulation, and technology,
leading to our central conclusion: physical computing is the use of a physical
system to predict the outcome of an abstract evolution. We give conditions that
must be satisfied in order for computation to be occurring, and illustrate
these with a range of non-standard computing scenarios. The framework also
covers broader computing contexts, where there is no obvious human computer
user. We define the critical notion of a 'computational entity', and show the
role this plays in defining when computing is taking place in physical systems.

Along with weaving together observations, experiments, and theoretical
constructs into a coherent mesh of understanding of the world around us,
physics over its past five centuries has continuously refined the base concepts
on which the whole framework is built. In quantum physics, first in
non-relativistic mechanics and later in quantum field theories, even familiar
concepts of position, momentum, wave or particle, are derived constructs from
the classical limit in which we live but not intrinsic to the underlying
physics. Most crucially, the very idea of the individual, whether an object or
an event, distinguished only in a mere label of identity from others identical
to it in all the physics, exists only as an approximation, not an element of
underlying reality. Failure to recognize this and seeking alternative
explanations in many worlds or multiverses leads only to incoherent logic and
incorrect physics.
  As an example, in a physical system such as an atom in a particular state,
physics deals with the universal system of all such atoms but makes no
meaningful prediction of the position of an electron or the time of decay of
any specific atom. Those are incidental, entirely random among all possible
positions and times, even while physics makes very precise predictions for the
distribution of the outcomes in measurements on atoms in that state. Physics
deals with the universal, not the individual.

Physics labs provide a unique opportunity for students to grow their physics
identity and science identity in general since they provide students with
opportunity to tinker with experiments and analyze data in a low-stakes
environment. However, it is important to ensure that all students are
benefiting from the labs equally and have a positive growth trajectory. Through
interviews and reflexive ethnographic observations, we identify and analyze two
common modes of work that may disadvantage female students in introductory
physics labs. Students who adopt the Secretary archetype are relegated to
recording and analyzing data, and thus miss out on much of the opportunity to
grow their physics and science identities by engaging fully in the experimental
work. Meanwhile, students in the Hermione mode shoulder a disproportionate
amount of managerial work, and also do not get adequate opportunity to engage
with different aspects of the experimental work that are essential for helping
them develop their physics and science identities. Using a physics identity
framework, we analyze interviews and observational data to investigate how
students under these modes of work may experience stunted growth in their
physics and science identity trajectories in their physics lab course. This
stunted growth then perpetuates and reinforces societal stereotypes and biases
about who does physics. This categorization not only gives a vocabulary to
discussions about equity in the lab, but can also serve as a useful touchstone
for those who seek to center equity in efforts to transform physics
instruction.

The fundamental physical theories that interpret and explain behaviour of
matter in nature are dependent on several unobservables and insensibles in
their construction. While a rigorous natural philosophy cannot take them for
granted, there does not seem to be a way of avoiding such unobservables in our
theories. While a program to banish all unobservables from physical theory is
unlikely to succeed, and perhaps even unnecessary, they are both the strong and
weak points of the theoretical descriptions of physical nature. Analyzing them
for empirical and philosophical consistency and integrity is always a promising
path towards a better theory. In this paper, I examine the nature of physical
reality in the context of unobservables in physics and discuss three examples.
One is about the apparent loss of physical reality due to the need for a
consistent quantum mechanical representation. The second example deals with the
conflict between the assumed reality of quantum fields, so fundamental and
essential to our standard physics worldview, and the dynamics of the observable
universe. The third deals with an all-important difference between conventional
modern physics constructed in the unreal and unobservable empty `space' and an
empirically and logically determined physics with matter-filled universe as its
arena. The acknowledgment of the observable matter-filled universe necessitates
reformulation of dynamics with total relativity. Not surprisingly, this
paradigm with its universal cosmic links also holds human concepts of harmony
and beauty.

This paper investigates the interactions between context and professional
development of physics instructors in a case study of two physics faculty. A
phenomenological-case study approach was used to analyze two physics faculty at
different institutions over a year and a half using three semi-structured
interviews each. The data enabled the identification of relevant context
elements; and the impact of these elements on physics faculty was explored by
adapting a framework that examines instructors' professional development. The
analysis shows that both case study subjects used their physics expertise and
growing understanding of their context to develop their physics teaching.
However, this growth was enacted differently given the nature of their context,
highlighting instructors' strengths in navigating their local context to
improve their physics teaching. The results show the subtleties of how context
has a salient, complex, and evolving role in moderating faculty's professional
development. By taking a faculty-centric approach, this paper broadens the
community's awareness of the ways physics instructors develop their physics
teaching. This work contributes to a relatively new lens by which the physics
community views, discusses, and supports the professional development of
physics faculty.

Integrating the special electromagnetic characteristics of Synthetic Aperture
Radar (SAR) in deep neural networks is essential in order to enhance the
explainability and physics awareness of deep learning. In this paper, we first
propose a novel physically explainable convolutional neural network for SAR
image classification, namely physics guided and injected learning (PGIL). It
comprises three parts: (1) explainable models (XM) to provide prior physics
knowledge, (2) physics guided network (PGN) to encode the knowledge into
physics-aware features, and (3) physics injected network (PIN) to adaptively
introduce the physics-aware features into classification pipeline for label
prediction. A hybrid Image-Physics SAR dataset format is proposed for
evaluation, with both Sentinel-1 and Gaofen-3 SAR data being experimented. The
results show that the proposed PGIL substantially improve the classification
performance in case of limited labeled data compared with the counterpart
data-driven CNN and other pre-training methods. Additionally, the physics
explanations are discussed to indicate the interpretability and the physical
consistency preserved in the predictions. We deem the proposed method would
promote the development of physically explainable deep learning in SAR image
interpretation field.

Big-data-based artificial intelligence (AI) supports profound evolution in
almost all of science and technology. However, modeling and forecasting
multi-physical systems remain a challenge due to unavoidable data scarcity and
noise. Improving the generalization ability of neural networks by "teaching"
domain knowledge and developing a new generation of models combined with the
physical laws have become promising areas of machine learning research.
Different from "deep" fully-connected neural networks embedded with physical
information (PINN), a novel shallow framework named physics-informed
convolutional network (PICN) is recommended from a CNN perspective, in which
the physical field is generated by a deconvolution layer and a single
convolution layer. The difference fields forming the physical operator are
constructed using the pre-trained shallow convolution layer. An efficient
linear interpolation network calculates the loss function involving boundary
conditions and the physical constraints in irregular geometry domains. The
effectiveness of the current development is illustrated through some numerical
cases involving the solving (and estimation) of nonlinear physical operator
equations and recovering physical information from noisy observations. Its
potential advantage in approximating physical fields with multi-frequency
components indicates that PICN may become an alternative neural network solver
in physics-informed machine learning.

Over the past decade, deep learning has revolutionized conventional tasks
that rely on hand-craft feature extraction with its strong feature learning
capability, leading to substantial enhancements in traditional tasks. However,
deep neural networks (DNNs) have been demonstrated to be vulnerable to
adversarial examples crafted by malicious tiny noise, which is imperceptible to
human observers but can make DNNs output the wrong result. Existing adversarial
attacks can be categorized into digital and physical adversarial attacks. The
former is designed to pursue strong attack performance in lab environments
while hardly remaining effective when applied to the physical world. In
contrast, the latter focus on developing physical deployable attacks, thus
exhibiting more robustness in complex physical environmental conditions.
Recently, with the increasing deployment of the DNN-based system in the real
world, strengthening the robustness of these systems is an emergency, while
exploring physical adversarial attacks exhaustively is the precondition. To
this end, this paper reviews the evolution of physical adversarial attacks
against DNN-based computer vision tasks, expecting to provide beneficial
information for developing stronger physical adversarial attacks. Specifically,
we first proposed a taxonomy to categorize the current physical adversarial
attacks and grouped them. Then, we discuss the existing physical attacks and
focus on the technique for improving the robustness of physical attacks under
complex physical environmental conditions. Finally, we discuss the issues of
the current physical adversarial attacks to be solved and give promising
directions.

The importance of science beliefs such as self-efficacy, interest, identity,
sense of belonging, perceived recognition and effectiveness of peer interaction
in science education has been increasingly recognized in recent years. Here, we
use five years of data from a validated survey administered to non-majors
during their first year, physics majors throughout their undergraduate
education, and first-year physics Ph.D. students at a large research university
in the US. We find that physics majors in the first-year responded to the
survey prompts more positively than their non-physics major peers who were in
the same introductory courses, with the largest differences in perceived
recognition, interest, and physics identity and somewhat smaller differences in
self-efficacy, perception of peer interaction, and sense of belonging. Further,
the average survey responses of physics majors for each belief remain largely
constant over time from their first-year of the undergraduate curriculum
through the last year and comparable to the Ph.D. students. This suggests that
students are adjusting their interpretation of the survey items to match the
current level of expertise expected of them. One exception occurs in the second
year, when peer interaction and sense of belonging reach a minimum. Moreover,
physics identity dips to the lowest value in the fourth year when many students
are contemplating continuing in physics beyond their undergraduate years or
switching fields. We also find that perceived recognition is the best predictor
of physics identity for physics majors throughout their entire physics
education, pointing to the importance of instructors making a concerted effort
to recognize and affirm their students throughout their education.

Historically, physics has been a predominantly male field, with previous
literature showing there is little diversity amongst U.S. physics students at
the undergraduate and graduate levels. Recent research indicates that the lack
of underrepresented minorities in physics is partially due to an unwelcoming
climate within physics departments, as well as differential experiences during
college. Most physics education research that addresses the lack of
underrepresented identities within the field has focused on the identities of
women and people of color. There has been little research to investigate people
with multiple underrepresented identities, including those such as
socioeconomic status, first-generation college students, or learning
disabilities. Furthermore, there has been even less research conducted to
better understand the impacts of the intersection of these underrepresented
identities and how it relates to experiences when pursuing a physics major. To
address this gap in the literature, our research has investigated undergraduate
physics students' experiences, to better understand what factors affect their
experiences and how these may differ by the intersection of one's
underrepresented identities. To achieve this goal, we conducted a series of
in-depth interviews with physics majors at one university to learn more about
their college experiences regarding physics. Our findings suggest that there is
a disproportionate number of obstacles when pursuing a physics major faced by
those with a greater number of underrepresented identities. We conclude that
there is a need for more equitable pedagogical practices and departmental
policies within the undergraduate physics experience, in addition to, a more
"human" approach to mentorship, in order to foster an environment in which
students with underrepresented identities can feel supported and thrive
academically and professionally.

Computational thinking in physics has many different forms, definitions, and
implementations depending on the level of physics, or the institution it is
presented in. In order to better integrate computational thinking in
introductory physics, we need to understand what physicists find important
about computational thinking in introductory physics. We present a qualitative
analysis of twenty-six interviews asking academic (N=18) and industrial (N=8)
physicists about the teaching and learning of computational thinking in
introductory physics courses. These interviews are part of a longer-term
project towards developing an assessment protocol for computational thinking in
introductory physics. We find that academic and industrial physicists value
students' ability to read code and that Python (or VPython) and spreadsheets
were the preferred computational language or environment used. Additionally,
the interviewees mentioned that identifying the core physics concepts within a
program, explaining code to others, and good program hygiene (i.e., commenting
and using meaningful variable names) are important skills for introductory
students to acquire. We also find that while a handful of interviewees note
that the experience and skills gained from computation are quite useful for
student's future careers, they also describe multiple limiting factors of
teaching computation in introductory physics, such as curricular overhaul, not
having "space" for computation, and student rejection. The interviews show that
while adding computational thinking to physics students repertoire is
important, the importance really comes from using computational thinking to
learn and understand physics better. This informs us that the assessment we
develop should only include the basics of computational thinking needed to
assess introductory physics knowledge.

In vehicle trajectory prediction, physics models and data-driven models are
two predominant methodologies. However, each approach presents its own set of
challenges: physics models fall short in predictability, while data-driven
models lack interpretability. Addressing these identified shortcomings, this
paper proposes a novel framework, the Physics-Enhanced Residual Learning (PERL)
model. PERL integrates the strengths of physics-based and data-driven methods
for traffic state prediction. PERL contains a physics model and a residual
learning model. Its prediction is the sum of the physics model result and a
predicted residual as a correction to it. It preserves the interpretability
inherent to physics-based models and has reduced data requirements compared to
data-driven methods. Experiments were conducted using a real-world vehicle
trajectory dataset. We proposed a PERL model, with the Intelligent Driver Model
(IDM) as its physics car-following model and Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) as
its residual learning model. We compare this PERL model with the physics
car-following model, data-driven model, and other physics-informed neural
network (PINN) models. The result reveals that PERL achieves better prediction
with a small dataset, compared to the physics model, data-driven model, and
PINN model. Second, the PERL model showed faster convergence during training,
offering comparable performance with fewer training samples than the
data-driven model and PINN model. Sensitivity analysis also proves comparable
performance of PERL using another residual learning model and a physics
car-following model.

This research focuses on the experiences of seven undergraduate women who
were majoring in physics at a small liberal arts college. In the
semi-structured, empathetic interviews we conducted, the women discuss how they
decided to major in physics, their interactions with their peers and
instructors, who has supported them during their physics trajectory, and
suggestions that would improve their experiences in physics. We use Standpoint
Theory and focus on the experiences of undergraduate women to get a holistic
perspective of how they became interested in physics, how they have been
supported in their physics journey as well as identify any challenges that they
faced in their undergraduate physics program due to their identity. Using
synergistic frameworks such as the domains of power and the Holistic Ecosystem
for Learning Physics in an Inclusive and Equitable Environment (HELPIEE), we
analyze how those in the position of power, e.g., instructors, can play
important roles in establishing and maintaining safe, equitable, and inclusive
environments for students, which is especially important for historically
marginalized students such as women and ethnic and racial minority students in
physics. Using these frameworks, we compare the experiences of these women with
those in Johnson's research at a small college and our prior investigation at a
large research university. We also discuss the suggestions provided by the
undergraduate women to implement in the future to support current and future
undergraduate women in physics and astronomy. Their suggestions are separated
as personal advice for peers and suggestions for physics instructors.

While neural implicit representations have gained popularity in multi-view 3D
reconstruction, previous work struggles to yield physically plausible results,
thereby limiting their applications in physics-demanding domains like embodied
AI and robotics. The lack of plausibility originates from both the absence of
physics modeling in the existing pipeline and their inability to recover
intricate geometrical structures. In this paper, we introduce PhyRecon, which
stands as the first approach to harness both differentiable rendering and
differentiable physics simulation to learn implicit surface representations.
Our framework proposes a novel differentiable particle-based physical simulator
seamlessly integrated with the neural implicit representation. At its core is
an efficient transformation between SDF-based implicit representation and
explicit surface points by our proposed algorithm, Surface Points Marching
Cubes (SP-MC), enabling differentiable learning with both rendering and
physical losses. Moreover, we model both rendering and physical uncertainty to
identify and compensate for the inconsistent and inaccurate monocular geometric
priors. The physical uncertainty additionally enables a physics-guided pixel
sampling to enhance the learning of slender structures. By amalgamating these
techniques, our model facilitates efficient joint modeling with appearance,
geometry, and physics. Extensive experiments demonstrate that PhyRecon
significantly outperforms all state-of-the-art methods in terms of
reconstruction quality. Our reconstruction results also yield superior physical
stability, verified by Isaac Gym, with at least a 40% improvement across all
datasets, opening broader avenues for future physics-based applications.

The nature of the physical space seems the most important subject in physics.
A present paper proceeds from the assumption of physical reality of space
contrary to the standard view of the space as a purely relational nonexistence
- void. The space and its evolution are the primary sources of phenomena in
Mega- and micro-worlds. Thus cosmology and particle physics have the same
active agent - physical space.

The physical basis of the modern cosmological inflationary models with
baryosynthesis and nonbaryonic dark matter and energy implies such predictions
of particle theory, that, in turn, apply to cosmology for their test. It makes
physics of early Universe ambiguous and particle model dependent. The study of
modern cosmology is inevitably linked with the probe for the new physics,
underlying it. The particle model dependent phenomena, such as unstable dark
matter, primordial black holes, strong primordial inhomogeneities, can play
important role in revealing the true physical cosmology. Such phenomena, having
serious physical grounds and leading to new nontrivial cosmological scenarious,
should be taken into account in the data analysis of observational cosmology.

Cosmoparticle physics is the natural result of development of mutual
relationship between cosmology and particle physics. Its prospects offer the
way to study the theory of everything and the true history of the Universe,
based on it, in the proper combination of their indirect physical,
astrophysical and cosmological signatures. We may be near the first positive
results in this direction. The basic ideas of cosmoparticle physics are briefly
reviewed.

A hidden Markov process is a well known concept in information theory and is
used for a vast range of applications such as speech recognition and error
correction. We bridge between two disciplines, experimental physics and
advanced algorithms, and propose to use a physically oriented hidden Markov
process as a new tool for analyzing experimental data. This tool enables one to
extract valuable information on physical parameters of complex systems. We
demonstrate the usefulness of this technique on low dimensional electronic
systems which exhibit time dependent resistance noise. This method is expected
to become a standard technique in experimental physics.

Action at a distance in Newtonian physics is replaced by finite propagation
speeds in classical physics, the physics defined by the field theories of
Maxwell and Einstein. As a result, the differential equations of motion in
Newtonian physics are replaced in classical physics by functional differential
equations, where the delay associated with the finite propagation speed (the
speed of light) is taken into account. Newtonian equations of motion, with
post-Newtonian corrections, are often used to approximate the functional
differential equations of motion. Some mathematical issues related to the
problem of extracting the ``correct'' approximate Newtonian equations of motion
are discussed.

We give a review of classical, thermodynamic and quantum properties of black
holes relevant to fundamental physics.

We discuss how developments in physics often imply in the need that spacetime
acquires an increasingly richer and complex structure. General Relativity was
the first theory to show us the way to connect space and time with the physical
world. Since then, scrutinizing the ways spacetime might exist is, in a way,
the very essence of physics. Physics has thus given substance to the pioneering
work of scores of brilliant mathematicians who speculated on the geometry and
topology of spaces.

This report on Photon Colliders covers the following ``physics'' issues:
physics motivation, possible luminosities, backgrounds, plans of works and
international cooperation. More technical aspects such as accelerator issues,
new ideas on laser optics, laser cooling, and interaction region layout are
discussed in my second talk at this Workshop.

This Resource Book reviews the physics opportunities of a next-generation
e+e- linear collider and discusses options for the experimental program. Part 3
reviews the possible experiments on that can be done at a linear collider on
strongly coupled electroweak symmetry breaking, exotic particles, and extra
dimensions, and on the top quark, QCD, and two-photon physics. It also
discusses the improved precision electroweak measurements that this collider
will make available.

We report on the physics potential of a proposed conversion of the CESR
machine and the CLEO detector to a charm and QCD factory: ``CLEO-c and CESR-c''
that will make crucial contributions to quark flavor physics this decade, and
may offer our best hope for mastering non-perturbative QCD, which is essential
if we are to understand strongly coupled sectors in the new physics that lies
beyond the Standard Model.

We review many of the contributions of the CLEO experiment to tau physics.
Topics discussed are: branching fractions for major decay modes and tests of
lepton universality; rare decays; forbidden decays; Michel parameters and spin
physics; hadronic sub-structure and resonance parameters; the tau mass, tau
lifetime, and tau neutrino mass; searches for CP violation in tau decay; tau
pair production, dipole moments, and CP violating EDM; and tau physics at
CLEO-III and at CLEO-c.

This article reviews the research program and efforts for the TEXONO
Collaboration on neutrino and astro-particle physics. The ``flagship'' program
is on reactor-based neutrino physics at the Kuo-Sheng (KS) Power Plant in
Taiwan. A limit on the neutrino magnetic moment of $\munuebar < 1.3 X 10^{-10}
\mub}$ at 90% confidence level was derived from measurements with a high purity
germanium detector. Other physics topics at KS, as well as the various R&D
program, are discussed

The talk covers three contributions on (i) the final measurement of branching
ratios and spectral functions of t decays using the full LEP-I data from ALEPH,
(ii) a preliminary measurement of the t hadronic branching ratios from DELPHI
and (iii) a measurement of the strange spectral function in hadronic t decays
from OPAL. These measurements are discussed and the relevant physics topics are
briefly reviewed.

I present a review of using rare B decays to search for physics beyond the
Standard Model. B decays that proceed either through annihilation or loop
topologies at leading order in the Standard Model provide unique probes in the
search for new physics. The latest experimental results from the B factories
(Babar and Belle) and the Tevatron experiments (CDF and D0) on rare decays and
their impact on various scenarios for new physics will be presented.

We show how, contrary to physical intuition, thermal fluctuations of physical
states having a non-vanishing baryonic number can be fully neglected in the
thermodynamics of QCD at any physical temperature. We also discuss on the
consistency between our results and the CPT theorem. The last part of this
article is devoted to comment some interesting physical features which follow
from this result.

One of the most challenging issues in particle physics is to study QCD in
extreme conditions. Precise determination of the QCD phase diagram on
temperature $T$ and chemical potential $\mu$ plane will provide valuable
information for quark-gluon plasma (QGP) and neutron star physics. We present
results for phase structure on the $(\mu, T)$ plane for lattice QCD with Wilson
fermions from strong coupling Hamiltonian analysis and Kogut-Susskind Fermions
from Lagrangian Monte Carlo simulations at intermediate coupling.

Understanding flavor physics is one of the most important tasks of particle
physics today, which is motivating an extraordinary experimental and
theoretical investigational effort. Important progress in this field has
already been achieved in the last few years, with Lattice QCD calculations
playing an essential role in this effort. I will describe some lattice
contributions to the studies of flavor physics by focusing particularly on the
determination of the CKM matrix and on the study of CP violation in the
Standard Model.

Because of the top quark's very large mass, about 175~GeV, it now provides
the best window into flavor physics. Thus, pair--production of top quarks at
the Tevatron Collider is the best probe of this physics until the Large Hadron
Collider turns on in the next century. I will discuss aspects of the mass and
angular distributions that can be measured in $\ttb$ production with the coming
large data samples from the Tevatron and even larger ones from the LHC.

We review and update the effects of physics beyond the standard model on CP
asymmetries in B decays. These asymmetries can be significantly altered if
there are important new-physics contributions to \bqbqbar mixing. This same new
physics will therefore also contribute to rare, flavor-changing B decays.
Through a study of such decays, we show that it is possible to partially
distinguish the different models of new physics.

A study has been made of the physics interest and feasibility of experiments
with nuclear beams in HERA. It is shown that such experiments widen
considerably the horizon for probing QCD compared to that from free nucleon
targets. In addition there is some sensitivity to physics beyond the standard
model. Hence the option to include circulating nuclear beams in HERA allows a
wide range of physics processes to be studied and understood.

After reviewing the present experimental constraints on the unitarity
triangle, I discuss the various ways in which new physics can manifest itself
in measurements of the parameters of the unitarity triangle. Apart from one
exception, which I describe, new physics enters principally through new
contributions to B0-B0(bar) mixing. Different models of new physics can be
partially distinguished by looking at their effects on rare, flavour-changing
$B$ penguin decays. (Invited talk given at the Symposium Twenty Beautiful Years
of Bottom Physics, Chicago, IL, USA, June 29 -- July 2, 1997.)

The potential for the Higgs boson and Z-pole physics at the first muon
collider is summarized, based on the discussions at the ``Workshop on the
Physics at the First Muon Collider and at the Front End of a Muon Collider'' .

Massive neutrinos open up the possibility for a variety of new physical
phenomena. Among them are oscillations and double beta decay. Furthermore they
influence several fields from particle physics to cosmology. In this article
the concept of massive neutrinos is given and the current status of
experimental research is extensively reviewed. This includes astrophysical
studies of solar, supernova and very high energy neutrinos. Future perspectives
are also outlined.

I review the new physics sensitivity of low-energy parity-violating (PV)
observables. I concentrate on signatures of new tree-level physics in atomic PV
with a single isotope, ratios of atomic PV observables, and PV electron
scattering. In addition to comparing the new physics sensitivities of these
observables with those of high-energy colliders, I also discuss the theoretical
issues involved in the extraction of new physics limits from low-energy PV
observables.

We review the physics of the power corrections to the parton model. In the
first part, we consider the power corrections which characterize the infrared
sensitivity of Feynman graphs when the contribution of short distances
dominates. The second part is devoted to the hypothetical power corrections
associated with nonperturbative effects at small distances.

Exactly twenty five years ago the world of high energy physics was set on
fire by the discovery of a new particle with an unusually narrow width at 3095
MeV, known popularly as the $J/\Psi$ revolution. This discovery was very
decisive in our understanding as well as formulating the current picture
regarding the basic constituents of nature. I look back at the discovery,
pointing out how unexpected, dramatic and significant it was.

I discuss the motivation and physics potential of an electron-positron linear
collider with a center-of-mass energy at the 1 TeV scale, in light of what we
may expect to learn with the LHC. The comparison is illustrated with examples
drawn from Higgs physics, top quark physics, and the search for large extra
spacetime dimensions.

Physics of spin-1 hadron is an unexplored topic in the high-energy region
although spin-1/2 physics has been well investigated in the last decade. It is
important to test our knowledge of hadron spin structure in a quite different
field of spin physics. We discuss tensor structure functions, which do not
exist for the spin-1/2 nucleon, in lepton scattering and in hadron reactions
such as the polarized proton-deuteron Drell-Yan process.

There is strong evidence that new physical degrees of freedom and new
phenomena exist and may be revealed in future collider experiments. The best
hints of what this new physics might be are provided by electroweak symmetry
breaking. I briefly review certain theories for physics beyond the standard
model, including the top-quark seesaw model and universal extra dimensions. A
common feature of these models is the presence of vector-like quarks at the TeV
scale. Then I discuss the role of a linear $e^+e^-$ collider in disentangling
this new physics.

Many topics are discussed in b physics including lifetimes, decay mechanisms,
determinations of the CKM matrix elements |V_{cb}| and |V_{ub}|, facilities for
b quark studies, neutral $B$ meson mixing, rare b decays, hadronic decays and
CP violation. I review techniques for finding physics beyond the Standard Model
and describe the complimentarity of b decay measurements in elucidating new
physics that could be found at higher energy machines.

The past few years have seen dramatic breakthroughs and spectacular and
puzzling discoveries in astrophysics and cosmology. In many cases, the new
observations can only be explained with the introduction of new fundamental
physics. Here we summarize some of these recent advances. We then describe
several problem in astrophysics and cosmology, ripe for major advances, whose
resolution will likely require new physics.

Third International Sakharov Conference on Physics organized by the
Theoretical Physics Department of the Lebedev Institute, Russian Academy of
Sciences, covered wide scope of topics: astrophysics, fusion, high field, high
pressure and high density research, superstrings and dualities, brane world and
quantum gravity, quantum field theory and high energy physics. This short
Opening Word however exceeds the bounds of physics - it is about three
"dynamical characteristics" of Sakharov's methodology and way of thinking:
"Artseulov method", "a permanent feeling of possible personal error", and
ability "to count to two", which in present days is not less demanded than
before.

A future e+e- Linear Collider has a large physics potential for the discovery
of new physics beyond the Standard Model and precision studies of the Standard
Model itself. It is well suited to complement and extend the physics program of
the LHC concerning the precise determination of the underlying theory. The use
of polarized beams at a LC will be one of the decisive tools.

The neutrino anomalies were driving force of the developments in neutrino
physics during the last 30 - 35 years. I will consider status of the anomalies
after the first KamLAND result. The main questions are "What is left?" and
"What is the next?" In the new phase, the phenomenological objectives of
neutrino physics consist of accomplishing the program of reconstruction of the
neutrino mass and flavor spectrum and searches for physics beyond the
``standard'' picture. The latter includes searches for new (sterile) neutrino
states, new neutrino interactions, effects of violation of the fundamental
symmetries in the neutrino sector.

The subject of this thesis is the study of dissipative dynamics and their
properties in particle physics, dealing with neutral B-mesons, neutron
interferometry and neutrino physics. Modified expressions for the relevant
phenomenological quantities characterizing these systems are obtained.
Moreover, the models presented in this work offer the possibility of direct
tests of some basic properties of reduced dynamics (in particular the notion of
complete positivity) since they represent concrete systems amenable to actual
experiments.

Event generators are an indispensable tool for the preparation and analysis
of particle-physics experiments. In this contribution, physics principles
underlying the construction of such computer programs are discussed. Results,
within and beyond the Standard Model of particle physics, obtained with a new
event generator are presented. This generator is capable to describe signal
processes for exotic physics and their backgrounds at electron-positron and
proton-(anti)proton colliders.

We discuss the physics potential of the solar neutrino experiments i) To
explore the parameter space of neutrino mass and mixings; ii) To probe the
physics of the Sun; iii) To explore nuclear physics of the neutrino-target
interactions. Examples are given for these three classes.

We discuss the physics motivations for building a 500 - 1 TeV
electron-positron linear collider. The state of the art collider technologies
and the physics-driven machine parameters are discussed. A survey of some of
the phenomena well suited to study at a linear collider are described,
including Higgs bosons, supersymmetry, other extensions to the Standard Model,
and cosmology.

We review the canonical theory for perfect fluids, in Eulerian and Lagrangian
formulations. The theory is related to a description of extended structures in
higher dimensions. Internal symmetry and supersymmetry degrees of freedom are
incorporated. Additional miscellaneous subjects that are covered include
physical topics concerning quantization, as well as mathematical issues of
volume preserving diffeomorphisms and representations of Chern-Simons terms (=
vortex or magnetic helicity).

I make some remarks on events leading to the final formulation of quantum
chromodynamics, stimulated by the ``Search and Discovery''article by Bertram
Schwarzschild in the December, 2004 {\it Physics Today}. The following text and
references is being submitted as a letter to the editor of {\it Physics Today}.

In 2004 the Fermilab Long Range Planning Committee identified a new high
intensity Proton Driver as an attractive option for the future, primarily
motivated by the recent exciting developments in neutrino physics. Over the
last few months a physics study has developed the physics case for the Fermilab
Proton Driver. The potential physics opportunities are discussed.

We clarify how intense laser irradiation leads to an enhancement of rare
processes that may occur within atoms. Non-perturbative calculation using a
coherent laser beam gives an exact, time dependent formula of the enhancement
factor in the large power limit. A high quality laser may provide a new tool of
experimentally investigating physics far beyond the standard model of particle
physics such as lepton and baryon nonconservation.

The proposed International Linear Collider (ILC) is well-suited for
discovering physics beyond the Standard Model and for precisely unravelling the
structure of the underlying physics. The physics return of the ILC can be
maximized by the use of polarized beams, in particular the simultaneous
polarization of the e- and the e+ beam. Ongoing physics studies are accompanied
by active R&D on the machine part for generating polarized beams and for
measuring the polarization with high precision at the ILC. Some new results on
the physics case and on the technical aspects of the polarization of both beams
are briefly summarized.

A short summary is given of the current status of B physics. Reasons for
physics beyond the Standard Model are discussed. Constraints on New Physics are
given using measurements of B mixing, Bs mixing, and CP violation, along with
|Vub. Future goals, and upcoming new experiments are also mentioned.

The detection of low energy neutrinos in a large scintillation detector may
provide further important information on astrophysical processes as supernova
physics, solar physics and elementary particle physics as well as geophysics.
In this contribution, a new project for Low Energy Neutrino Astronomy (LENA)
consisting of a 50kt scintillation detector is presented.

The true variables in QED are the transverse photon components and Dirac's
physical electron, constructed out of the fermionic field and the longitudinal
components of the photon. We calculate the propagators in terms of these
variables to one loop and demonstrate their gauge invariance. The physical
electron propagator is shown not to suffer from infrared divergences in any
gauge. In general, all physical Green's functions are gauge invariant and
infrared-finite.

We present a simple procedure for constructing the complete cohomology of the
BRST operator of the two-scalar and multi-scalar $W_3$ strings. The method
consists of obtaining two level--15 physical operators in the two-scalar $W_3$
string that are invertible, and that can normal order with all other physical
operators. They can be used to map all physical operators into non-trivial
physical operators whose momenta lie in a fundamental unit cell. By carrying
out an exhaustive analysis of physical operators in this cell, the entire
cohomology problem is solved.

The coherent-state path-integral representation for the propagator of
fermionic systems subjected to first-class constraints is constructed. As in
the bosonic case the importance of path-integral measures for Lagrange
multipliers is emphasized. One example is discussed in some detail.

In addition to briefly reviewing recent progress in studying black hole
physics in string/M theory, we describe several robust features pertaining to
spacetime physics that one can glean by studying quantum physics of black
holes. In particular, we review 't Hooft's S-matrix ansatz which results in a
noncommutative horizon. A recent construction of fuzzy AdS2 is emphasized, this
is a nice toy model for fuzzy black hole horizon. We demonstrate that this
model captures some nonperturbative features of quantum gravity.

The physical meaning, the properties and the consequences of a discrete
scalar field are discussed; limits for a continuous mathematical description of
fundamental physics is a natural outcome of discrete fields with discrete
interactions. The discrete scalar field is ultimately the gravitational field
of general relativity, necessarily, and there is no place for any other
fundamental scalar field, in this context.

We conjecture that the extra dimensions are physical non-compact at high
energy scale or high temperature; after the symmetry breaking or cosmological
phase transition, the bulk cosmological constant may become negative, and then,
the extra dimensions may become physical compact at low energy scale. We show
this in a five-dimensional toy brane model with three parallel 3-branes and a
real bulk scalar whose potential is temperature dependent. We also point out
that after the global or gauge symmetry breaking, or the supersymmetry breaking
in supergravity theory, the spontaneous physical compactification of the extra
dimensions might be realized.

It is shown that the operator algebraic setting of local quantum physics
leads to a uniqueness proof for the inverse scattering problem. The important
mathematical tool is the thermal KMS aspect of wedge-localized operator
algebras and its strengthening by the requirement of crossing symmetry for
generalized formfactors. The theorem extends properties which were previously
seen in d=1+1 factorizing models.

Thirty years ago, Coleman proved that no continuous symmetry is broken
spontaneously in a two-dimensional relativistic quantum field theory. In his
argument, however, it is difficult to understand the physical meaning of the
assumption of no infrared divergence. I derive the same result directly from
the cluster property of a local field regarded as a physically acceptable
assumption.

The ``exotic'' particle model with non-commuting position coordinates,
associated with the two-parameter central extension of the planar Galilei
group, can be used to derive the ground states of the Fractional Quantum Hall
Effect. The relation to other NC models is discussed. Anomalous coupling is
presented. Similar equations arise for a semiclassical Bloch electron, used to
explain the anomalous/spin/optical Hall effects.

We explain why the main conclusion of Bender et al, hep-th/0511229 [J. Phys.
A 39 (2006) 1657] regarding the practical superiority of the non-Hermitian
description of PT-symmetric quantum systems over their Hermitian description is
not valid. Recalling the essential role played by the Hermitian description in
the characterization and interpretation of the physical observables, we
maintain that as far as the physical aspects of the theory are concerned the
Hermitian description is not only unavoidable but also indispensable.

A bosonized nonlinear (polynomial) supersymmetry is revealed as a hidden
symmetry of the finite-gap Lame equation. This gives a natural explanation for
peculiar properties of the periodic quantum system underlying diverse models
and mechanisms in field theory, nonlinear wave physics, cosmology and condensed
matter physics.

We apply the generalized Abel-Plana formula for the investigation of one-loop
quantum effects on manifolds with boundaries. This allows to extract from the
vacuum expectation values of local physical observables the parts corresponding
to the geometry without boundaries and to present the boundary-induced parts in
terms of integrals strongly convergent for the points away from the boundaries.
As a result, the renormalization procedure for these observables is reduced to
the corresponding procedure for the bulks without boundaries.

We show that a Green function solution can be given for a class of
non-homogeneous nonlinear systems having relevance in quantum field theory.
This in turn means that a quantum field theory in the strong coupling limit can
be formulated and the spectrum obtained.

We construct N=1 supersymmetric field theory in 4+2 dimensions compatible
with the theoretical framework of 2T physics and its gauge symmetries. The
fields are arranged into 4+2 dimensional chiral and vector supermultiplets, and
their interactions are uniquely fixed by SUSY and 2T-physics gauge symmetries.
In a particular gauge the 4+2 theory reduces to ordinary supersymmetric field
theory in 3+1 dimensions without any Kaluza-Klein remnants, but with some
additional constraints in 3+1 dimensions of interesting phenomenological
relevance. This construction is another significant step in the development of
2T-physics as a structure that stands above 1T-physics.

We derive the spectrum in the broken phase of a $\lambda\phi^4$ theory, in
the limit $\lambda\to\infty$, showing that this goes as even integers of a
renormalized mass in agreement with recent lattice computations.

Though the truths of logic and pure mathematics are objective and independent
of any contingent facts or laws of nature, our knowledge of these truths
depends entirely on our knowledge of the laws of physics. Recent progress in
the quantum theory of computation has provided practical instances of this, and
forces us to abandon the classical view that computation, and hence
mathematical proof, are purely logical notions independent of that of
computation as a physical process. Henceforward, a proof must be regarded not
as an abstract object or process but as a physical process, a species of
computation, whose scope and reliability depend on our knowledge of the physics
of the computer concerned.

These notes contain a survey of some aspects of the theory of differential
modules and complexes as well as of their generalization, that is, the theory
of $N$-differential modules and $N$-complexes. Several applications and
examples coming from physics are discussed. The commun feature of these
physical applications is that they deal with the theory of constrained or gauge
systems. In particular different aspects of the BRS methods are explained and a
detailed account of the $N$-complexes arising in the theory of higher spin
gauge fields is given.

We present an approximation to topological spaces by {\it noncommutative}
lattices. This approximation has a deep physical flavour based on the
impossibility to fully localize particles in any position measurement. The
original space being approximated is recovered out of a projective limit.

A new formalism is presented for analytically obtaining the probability
density function, \( P_{n}(s) \), for the distance between two random points in
an \( n \)-dimensional sphere of radius \( R \). Our formalism allows \(
P_{n}(s) \) to be calculated for a sphere having an arbitrary density
distribution, and reproduces the well-known results for the case of a sphere
with uniform density. The results find applications in stochastic geometry,
probability distribution theory, astrophysics, nuclear physics, and elementary
particle physics.

We introduce the principle of Occam's Razor in a form which can be used as a
basis for economical formulations of physics.
  This allows us to explain the general structure of the Lagrangian for a
composite physical system, as well as some other artificial postulates behind
the variational formulations of physical laws.
  As an example, we derive Hamilton's principle of stationary action together
with the Lagrangians for the cases of Newtonian mechanics, relativistic
mechanics and a relativistic particle in an external gravitational field.

Under certain circumstances, some of which are made explicit here, one can
deduce bounds on the full sum of a perturbation series of a physical quantity
by using a variational Borel map on the partial series. The method is
illustrated by applying it to various examples, physical and mathematical.

This note provides an explicit proof of the equivalence of the Belinfante's
energy-momentum tensor and the metric energy-momentum tensor for general mixed
tensor-spinor fields.

The aim of the paper is to provide a constructive method for recovering a
unitary matrix from experimental data. Since there is a natural immersion of
unitary matrices within the set of double stochastic ones, the problem to solve
is to find necessary and sufficient criteria that separate the two sets. A
complete solution is provided for the 3-dimensional case, accompanied by a
$\chi^2$ test necessary for the reconstruction of a unitary matrix from error
affected data.

In this paper we prove that the four-point function of massive
$\vp_4^4$-theory is continuous as a function of its independent external
momenta when posing the renormalization condition for the (physical) mass
on-shell. The proof is based on integral representations derived inductively
from the perturbative flow equations of the renormalization group. It closes a
longstanding loophole in rigorous renormalization theory in so far as it shows
the feasibility of a physical definition of the renormalized coupling.

Construction of the TESLA linear electron-positron collider tangentially to
the HERA proton ring will provide a number of new facilities for particle and
nuclear physics research. In this paper main parameters and physics goals of
eA, gamma-A and FEK gamma-A colliders, as well as fixed target experiments are
discussed.

The physics chapter of the NUSEL-Homestake Reference Design Science Book
describes the physics motivation for building a deep underground science and
engineering laboratory. It includes discussions of outstanding problems in
neutrino physics and astrophysics (including long-baseline probes of theta-13
and CP violation, solar and atmospheric neutrinos, and double beta decay), dark
matter, nucleon decay, nuclear astrophysics with underground detectors, and
neutrinos as a probe of supernovae.

The opening of the meson factories twenty years ago provided nuclear physics
with new beams, higher momentum transfers, and new opportunities for precision
measurements. The resulting changes in nuclear physics were substantial,
altering not only the range of physics issues identified with the field but
also the manner and size of the collaborations that do nuclear physics.
Inspired by the talks of this symposium, I discuss some of the accomplishments
as well as some of the goals not yet reached.

We consider the possibility of obtaining emergent properties of physical
spaces endowed with structures analogous to that of collective models put
forward by classical statistical physics. We show that, assuming that a
so-called "metric scale" does exist, one can indeed recover a number of
properties of physical spaces such as the Minkowski metric, the relativistic
quantum dynamics and the electroweak theory.

It is shown that the universal Newton time may be introduced in the classical
electrodynamics. The statement results from an existence of the generalized
symmetry of Maxwell equations with respect to Galilei transformations
(physics/9701006). In the case of the extended Galilei transformations the
postulate of invariance of the speed of light may be made compatible with the
concept of the universal Newton time. Some physical consequences of the
extended Galilei symmetry are considered.

In the sixties Ogievetskii and Polubarinov proposed the concept of a notoph,
whose helicity properties are complementary to those of a photon. We analyze
the theory of antisymmetric tensor fields in the view of the normalization
problem. The obtained result is that it is possible to describe both photon and
notoph degrees of freedom on the basis of the modified Bargmann-Wigner
formalism for the symmetric second-rank spinor. Physical consequences are
discussed.

In this paper we consider applications of methods from wavelet analysis to
nonlinear dynamical problems related to accelerator physics. In our approach we
take into account underlying algebraical, geometrical and topological
structures of corresponding problems.

The subject of this review are atom traps based on optical dipole forces in
laser fields, along with their unique features as storage devices at ultralow
energies. The basic physics of the dipole interaction is discussed, and the
experimental background of dipole trapping experiments is explained. Specific
trapping schemes and experiments are presented, where the wide range of
applications of dipole traps is explored considering particular examples.

In this series of eight papers we present the applications of methods from
wavelet analysis to polynomial approximations for a number of accelerator
physics problems. In this part we consider the applications of discrete wavelet
analysis technique to maps which come from discretization of continuous
nonlinear polynomial problems in accelerator physics. Our main point is
generalization of wavelet analysis which can be applied for both discrete and
continuous cases. We give explicit multiresolution representation for solutions
of discrete problems, which is correct discretization of our representation of
solutions of the corresponding continuous cases.

We report several simulation programs which can be used to teach the
statistical foundation of thermal physics in the introductory college physics
courses. These programs are simple applications of a technique of generating
random configurations of many dice with fixed total value. By simulating dice
throwing only we can demonstrate all the important principles of classical
thermodynamics.

Modern physics is largely defined by fundamental symmetry principles and
Noether's Theorem. Yet these are not taught, or rarely mentioned, to beginning
students, thus missing an opportunity to reveal that the subject of physics is
as lively and contemporary as molecular biology, and as beautiful as the arts.
We prescribe a symmetry module to insert into the curriculum, of a week's
length.

A non-technical argument is presented that there is a link between the mind
and the physical world in modern physics. Special relativity, general
relativity, quantum mechanics, statistical mechanics, and other areas of
physics are explored. Each area is found to support the existence of a link
between the mind and the physical world. Research from psychology is also
presented indicating that there is a role for the discipline of psychology in
delineating the nature of this link.

This article describes the successful revitalization of an undergraduate
physics program. The areas of curriculum development, undergraduate research
experiences and advising and retention, to name a few, are emphasized in this
interconnecting and systematic approach whereby each and every effort combines
to get results. The program can be used by other physics departments wishing to
improve and expand undergraduate education in physics.

A mini-conference on Hamiltonian and Lagrangian methods in fluid and plasma
physics was held on November 14, 2002, as part of the 44th meeting of the
Division of Plasma Physics of the American Physical Society. This paper
summarizes the material presented during the talks scheduled during the
Mini-Conference, which was held to honor Allan Kaufman on the occasion of his
75th birthday.

As an expansion of complex numbers, the quaternions show close relations to
numerous physically fundamental concepts. In spite of that, the didactic
potential provided by quaternion interrelationships in formulating physical
laws are hardly regarded in the current physics curriculum. In particular, many
approaches emerge that are useful in conveying the unity of seemingly distinct
theories in a didactically convincing manner. This will be exemplified with the
help of special relativity. The diverse examples of spatial and space-time
rotations are merged into a didactic whole by introducing quaternion
transformations and comparing them to the representation using rotation
matrices common in physics books.

The ``geometry'', in the sense of the classical differential geometry of
smooth manifolds (CDG), is put under scrutiny from the point of view of
Abstract Differential Geometry (ADG), along with resulting, thereby, potential
physical consequences, in what, in particular, concerns physical ``gauge
theories'', when the latter are viewed as being, anyway, of a ``geometrical
character''. Yet, ``physical geometry'', in connection with physical laws and
the associated with them, within the context of ADG, ``differential'' equations
(whence, no background spacetime manifold is needed thereat), are also under
discussion.

Stephen Hawking's recent concession that black holes do not irretrievably
eradicate information after all has garnered much attention. It is refreshing
to see the public focused, if just for a moment, on an important conundrum that
has fascinated theoretical physicists for three decades, and prompted much
conceptual progress. The scientific issues, however, remain much less settled
than Dr. Hawking's celebrated wager on the question.

The review consists of two parts. In the first part the critical points in
the past, present and future of neutrino physics (nuclear, particle and
astroparticle) are reviewed. In the second part the contributions of Yugoslav
physics to the physics of the neutrino are commented upon. The review is meant
as a first reading for the newcomers to the field of neutrino physics.

Based on a physical monism, which holds that the matter and space are
classified by not a difference of their kind but a difference of magnitude of
their density, I derive the most fundamental equation of motion, which is
capable of providing a deeper physical understanding than the known physics.
For example, this equation answers to the substantive reason of movement, and
Newton's second law, which has been regarded as the definition of force, is
derived in a substantive level from this equation. Further, the relativistic
energy-mass formula is generalized to include the potential energy term, and
the Lorentz force and Maxwell equations are newly derived.

We give, for the first time, the critical complete text of a manuscript by
Ettore Majorana, conserved in the same file of the lecture notes for his course
on Theoretical Physics at the University of Naples. He probably refers to a
seminar delivered in that University. Some passages reveal a physical
interpretation of the Quantum Mechanics which anticipates of several years the
Feynman approach in terms of path integrals, independently of the underlying
mathematical formulation.

The principles of the physical description of non-inertial frames of
reference are analyzed. The systems of physical reality description (PhRD) are
introduced on base of generalization of the relativistic principle in special
and general theories of relativity. Physical objects and their interactions
from different systems of PhRD are examined. A lot of conformities between
considered objects and their interactions with known physical objects and
fundamental interactions both in micro- and macro-scales are found.

The ``unification'' of fundamental physical forces (interactions) imagines a
``single'' conceptual entity using which {\em all} the observable or physical
phenomena, {\em ie}, changes to physical bodies, would be suitably describable.
The physical, conceptual and mathematical, framework which achieves this is
that of the recently proposed Universal Theory of Relativity \cite{smw-utr}.
Here, we argue that the mathematical framework required to achieve the
``unification'' should be that of the general Category Theory. There are
certain unanswered mathematical questions arising out of this context. In the
sequel, we also point out these issues for the wider attention.

The inward bound path of discovery unravelling the mysteries of matter and
the forces that hold it together has culminated at the end of the twentieth
century in a theory of the Fundamental Forces of Nature based on Nonabelian
Gauge Fields, called the Standard Model of High Energy Physics. In this article
we trace the historical development of the ideas and the experimental
discoveries on which this theory is based. We also mark significant Indian
contributions wherever possible. Finally we have a glimpse at future
developments. An Appendix on more Indian contributions is added at the end.

The modeling theory of instruction is widely applied and highly successful in
high-school instruction, and seldom in university physics. One reason is lack
of familiarity with models in the physics classroom. Ongoing curriculum
development has initiated application of modeling theory at the university
level. This paper describes a university physics class as it progresses through
a modeling cycle, including model development, application and adaptation,
extension, and revision in an effort to reify the role of models in a class.
Benefits of modeling instruction are identified and include effective knowledge
organization and consistency with accepted scientific practice.

The methods developed in the previous Part I (physics/0603167) are applied to
a few important reductions of BBGKY hierarchy, namely, various examples of
Vlasov-like systems. It is well known that they are important both for fusion
modeling and for particular physical problems related to plasma/beam physics.
As in part I we concentrate mostly on phenomena of localization and pattern
formation.

This article describes five common student misconceptions about succeeding in
college-level Physics courses: the miracle finish, the soft hearted professor,
an extension of high school, weak areas won't be tested, and passing is more
important than learning. These fantasies are unique to neither Physics nor
freshman, but the challenge of learning Physics brings more certain negative
consequences to students retaining these attitudes. Ascribing these student
misconceptions to freshmen acknowledges that they diminish with increasing
academic maturity.

How can econophysics contribute to economics? Since the relation between
basic principles of physics and economics is not established, there is no
reason why physical theories should be of any value for economic theory. While
economic theories leave the physicists largely without orientation in this
field, econo-physicists should orient themselves at concrete problems from
economic practice rather than from economic academics. Thereby physicists
should respect the lead of economists. This then also puts physics closer to
econometrics. Then the natural strength of physics in dealing with empirical
data as the fundamental basis for its research could be valuable for both,
theory as well as for applications in economics.

We describe a course designed to help future educators build an integrated
understanding of the different elements of physics education research (PER),
including: research into student learning, content knowledge from the
perspective of how it is learned, and reform-based curricula together with
evidence of their effectiveness. Course elements include equal parts of
studying physics through proven curricula and discussion of research results in
the context of the PER literature. We provide examples of the course content
and structure as well as representative examples of student learning in the
class.

Even though the concepts of time and space are basic concepts of physics,
they have not been vouchsafed a constructive definition. As to space, this is
no wonder because a correct notion of space cannot be formed in the frame of
the existing physical paradigm. However, a definition of time can be given on
the basis of the simple principle that each physical magnitude constitutes a
feature of some physical carrier (Costa, 1987). This article deals with
identifying that carrier for the feature "time". Finally this article affirms
that because of the lack of a definition of time some physical experiments have
been erroneously interpreted as signs of time dilation.

Evolution of a physical quantum state vector is described as governed by two
distinct physical laws: Continuous, unitary time evolution and a
relativistically covariant reduction process. In previous literature, it was
concluded that a relativistically satisfactory version of the collapse
postulate is in contradiction with physical measurements of a non-local state
history. Here it is shown that such measurements are excluded when reduction is
formulated as a physical process and the measurement devices are included as
part of the state vector.

After a brief introduction to the principles and promise of quantum
information processing, the requirements for the physical implementation of
quantum computation are discussed. These five requirements, plus two relating
to the communication of quantum information, are extensively explored and
related to the many schemes in atomic physics, quantum optics, nuclear and
electron magnetic resonance spectroscopy, superconducting electronics, and
quantum-dot physics, for achieving quantum computing.

We show that the modern quantum mechanics, and particularly the theory of
decoherence, allows for formulating a sort of a physical metatheory of
consciousness. Particularly, the analysis of the necessary conditions for the
occurrence of decoherence, along with the hypothesis that consciousness bears
(more-or-less) well definable physical origin, leads to a wider physical
picture naturally involving consciousness. This can be considered as a sort of
a psycho-physical parallelism, but on rather wide scales bearing some
cosmological relevance.

It is proposed the scheme of quantum mechanics, in which a Hilbert space and
the linear operators are not primary elements of the theory. Instead of it
certain variant of the algebraic approach is considered. The elements of
noncommutative algebra (observables) and the nonlinear functionals on this
algebra (physical states) are used as the primary constituents. The functionals
associate with results of a particular measurement. It is suggested to consider
certain ensembles of the physical states as quantum states of the standart
quantum mechanics. It is shown that in such scheme the mathematical formalism
of the standart quantum mechanics can be reproduced completely.

This article discusses the concept of information and its intimate
relationship with physics. After an introduction of all the necessary quantum
mechanical and information theoretical concepts we analyze Landauer's principle
that states that the erasure of information is inevitably accompanied by the
generation of heat. We employ this principle to rederive a number of results in
classical and quantum information theory whose rigorous mathematical
derivations are difficult. This demonstrates the usefulness of Landauer's
principle and provides an introduction to the physical theory of information.

We study effects of the physical realization of quantum computers on their
logical operation. Through simulation of physical models of quantum computer
hardware, we analyze the difficulties that are encountered in programming
physical realizations of quantum computers. Examples of logically identical
implementations of the controlled-NOT operation and Grover's database search
algorithm are used to demonstrate that the results of a quantum computation are
unstable with respect to the physical realization of the quantum computer. We
discuss the origin of these instabilities and discuss possibilities to overcome
this, for practical purposes, fundamental limitation of quantum computers.

Epistemic interpretations of quantum mechanics fail to address the puzzle
posed by the occurrence of probabilities in a fundamental physical theory. This
is a puzzle about the physical world, not a puzzle about our relation to the
physical world. Its solution requires a new concept of physical space,
presented in this article. An examination of how the mind and the brain
construct the phenomenal world reveals the psychological and neurobiological
reasons why we think about space in ways that are inadequate to the physical
world. The resulting notion that space is an intrinsically partitioned expanse
has up to now stood in the way of a consistent ontological interpretation.

We show that the modern quantum mechanics, and particularly the theory of
decoherence, allows formulating a sort of a physical metatheory of
consciousness. Particularly, the analysis of the necessary conditions for the
occurrence of decoherence, along with the hypothesis that consciousness bears
(more-or-less) well definable physical origin, leads to a wider physical
picture naturally involving consciousness. This can be considered as a sort of
a psycho-physical parallelism, but on very wide scales bearing some
cosmological relevance.

A generalization of canonical quantization which maps a dynamical operator to
a dynamical superoperator is suggested. Weyl quantization of dynamical
operator, which cannot be represented as Poisson bracket with some function, is
considered. The usual Weyl quantization of observables is a specific case of
suggested quantization. This approach allows to define consistent quantization
procedure for non-Hamiltonian and dissipative systems. Examples of the harmonic
oscillator with friction (generalized Lorenz-Rossler-Leipnik-Newton equation),
the Fokker-Planck-type system and Lorenz-type system are considered.

It is shown that two observers have mutually commuting observables if they
are able to prepare in each subsector of their common state space some state
exhibiting no mutual correlations. This result establishes a heretofore missing
link between statistical and locality (commensurability) properties of the
observables of spacelike separated observers in relativistic quantum physics,
envisaged four decades ago by Haag and Kastler. It is based on a discussion of
coincidence experiments and suggests a physically meaningful quantitative
measure of possible violations of Einstein causality.

The slogan "information is physical" has been so successful that it led to
some excess. Classical and quantum information can be thought of independently
of any physical implementation. Pure information tasks can be realized using
such abstract c- and qu-bits, but physical tasks require appropriate physical
realizations of c- or qu-bits. As illustration we consider the problem of
communicating chirality. We discuss in detail the physical resources this
necessitates, and introduce the natural concept of "quantum gloves", i.e.
rotationally invariant quantum states that encode as much as possible the
concept of chirality and nothing more.

The quantum dynamics of a particle in the Modified P\"oschl-Teller potential
is derived from the group $SL(2,R)$ by applying a Group Approach to
Quantization (GAQ). The explicit form of the Hamiltonian as well as the ladder
operators is found in the enveloping algebra of this basic symmetry group. The
present algorithm provides a physical realization of the non-unitary,
finite-dimensional, irreducible representations of the $SL(2,R)$ group. The
non-unitarity manifests itself in that only half of the states are
normalizable, in contrast with the representations of SU(2) where all the
states are physical.

Difficulties and discomfort with the interpretation of quantum mechanics are
due to differences in language between it and classical physics. Analogies to
The Special Theory of Relativity, which also required changes in the basic
worldview and language of non-relativistic classical mechanics, may help in
absorbing the changes called for by quantum physics. There is no need to invoke
extravagances such as the many worlds interpretation or specify a central role
for consciousness or neural microstructures. The simple, but basic, acceptance
that what is meant by the state of a physical system is different in quantum
physics from what it is in classical physics goes a long way in explaining its
seeming peculiarities.

We argue, through some philosophical considerations, on (i)dependent or (ii)
an independent existence of physical reality underlying quantum states.
According these simple considerations, we conclude that is impossible to have a
clear independent existence of physical reality, we need to search the reasons
in the relationship between our questions (the observers) and the consequent
answers (always estimated by the same observers). Finally, we infer that every
theory is affected by our "questions", so we cannot speak about an
unconditional and independent theory underlying physical reality. Plan of the
paper. The existence of physical reality underlying quantum states: (i) it
before bit,(ii)it without bit,(iii)it from bit.

We reconsider briefly the relation between "physical quantity" and "physical
reality in the light of recent interpretations of Quantum Mechanics. We argue,
that these interpretations are conditioned from the epistemological relation
between these two fundamental concepts. In detail, the choice as ontic level of
the concept affect, the relative interpretation. We note, for instance, that
the informational view of quantum mechanics (primacy of the subjectivity) is
due mainly to the evidence of the "random" physical quantities as ontic
element. We will analyze four positions: Einstein, Rovelli, d'Espagnat and
Zeilinger.

We argue about a possible scenario of physical reality based on the
parallelism between Poincare group and the sunyata philosophy of Nagarjuna. The
notion of "relational" is the common denominator of two views. We have
approached the relational concept in third-person perspective (ontic level). It
is possible to deduce different physical consequence and interpretation through
first-person perspective approach. This relational interpretation leave open
the questions: i)we must abandon the idea for a physical system the possibility
to extract completeness information? ii)we must abandon the idea to infer a
possible structure of physical reality?

The Large Hadron Collider (LHC) is expected to provide proton-proton
collisions at a centre-of-mass energy of 14 TeV, yielding millions of of top
quark events. The top-physics potential of the two general purpose experiments,
ATLAS and CMS, is discussed according to state-of-the-art simulation of both
physics and detectors. An overview is given of the most important results with
emphasis on the expected improvements in our understanding of physics connected
to the top quark.

Non-unitary quantum mechanics has been used in the past to study
irreversibility, dissipation and decay in a variety of physical systems. In
this letter, we propose a general scheme to deal with systems governed by
non-Hermitian Hamiltonians. We argue that the Schwinger-Keldysh formalism gives
a natural description for those problems. To elucidate the method, we study a
simple model inspired by mesoscopic physics --an asymmetric junction. The
system is governed by a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian which captures essential
aspects of irreversibility.

We discuss the implications of new physics, which modifies the matter effect
in neutrino oscillations, to long baseline experiments, particularly the MINOS
experiment. An analytic formula in the presence of such a new physics
interaction is derived for $P(\nu_\mu\to\nu_e)$, which is exact in the limit
$\Delta m^2_{21}\to0$.

Flavour will play a crucial role in understanding physics beyond the Standard
Model. Progress in developing a future programme to investigate this central
area of particle physics has recently passed a milestone, with the completion
of the conceptual design report for SuperB, a very high luminosity, asymmetric
e+e- collider. This article summarizes the important role of SuperB in
understanding new physics in the LHC era.

High-precision approximate analytic expressions for energies and wave
functions are found for arbitrary physical potentials. The Schr\"{o}dinger
equation is cast into nonlinear Riccati equation, which is solved analytically
in first iteration of the quasi-linearization method (QLM). The zeroth
iteration is based on general features of the exact solution near the
boundaries. The approach is illustrated on the Yukawa potential. The results
enable accurate analytical estimates of effects of parameter variations on
physical systems.

We present an approach of the kicked rotor quantum resonances in
position-space, based on its analogy with the optical Talbot effect. This
approach leads to a very simple picture of the physical mechanism underlying
the dynamics and to analytical expressions for relevant physical quantities,
such as mean momentum or kinetic energy. The ballistic behavior, which is
closely associated to quantum resonances, is analyzed and shown to emerge from
a coherent adding of successive kicks applied to the rotor thanks to a periodic
reconstruction of the spatial wavepacket.

We review the salient features of $B$-meson physics, with particular emphasis
on the measurements carried out at the $B$-factories and Tevatron, theoretical
progress in understanding these measurements in the context of the standard
model, and anticipation at the LHC. Topics discussed specifically are the
current status of the Cabibbo-Kobayashi-Maskawa matrix, the CP-violating
phases, rare radiative and semileptonic decays, and some selected non-leptonic
two-body decays of the $B$ mesons.

The physics case of the SuperB facility with design luminosity of 10^36 cm^-2
s^-1 is compelling. Such a facility has a rich and varied potential to probe
physics beyond the Standard Model. These new physics constraints are obtained
through the study of the rare or Standard Model forbidden decays of B_u,d,s, D
and tau particles. The highlights of this wide-ranging physics programme are
discussed in these proceedings.

We describe the development of a junior-senior level course for Physics
majors designed to teach Mathematica skills in support of their undergraduate
coursework, but also to introduce students to modern research level results.
Standard introductory and intermediate level Physics homework-style problems
are used to teach Mathematica commands and programming methods, which are then
applied, in turn, to more sophisticated problems in some of the core
undergraduate subjects, along with making contact with recent research papers
in a variety of fields.

LHCb is a dedicated detector for b physics at the LHC. In this article we
present a concise review of the detector design and performance together with
the main physics goals and their relevance for a precise test of the Standard
Model and search of New Physics beyond it.

The letter reminds the historical fact that the known "Lorenz gauge" (or
"Lorenz condition/relation") is first mentioned in a written form and named
after Ludwig Valentin Lorenz and not by/after Hendrik Antoon Lorentz.

I review the main features of the color charge degree of freedom in particle
physics, sketch the paradox in the early quark model that led to color, give a
personal perspective on the discovery of color and describe the introduction of
the gauge theory of color.

Although direct detection of new particles will be the main focus of the LHC,
indirect New Physics searches are expected to provide useful complementary
information. In particular, precision measurements of rare processes occurring
in flavour physics are of utmost importance in constraining the structure of
the New physics low energy effective Lagrangian. In this paper, few key LHCb
studies, including $B_s-\bar{B}_s$ mixing and rare decays through the quark
level $b\to s$ loop transition, are presented to illustrate New Physics effects
at low energy.

At present it is generally believed that ``new physics'' effects contribute
to leptonic anomalous magnetic moment, a_l, via quantum loops only and they are
proportional to the squared lepton mass, (m_l)^2. An alternative mechanism for
a contribution by new physics is proposed. It occurs at the tree level and
exhibits a linear rather than quadratic dependence on m_l. This leads to a much
larger sensitivity of a_e to the new physics than was expected so far.

With U-spin symmetry, b->s and b->d penguin decays could be a subtle probe of
CP violating new physics contributions. We show that, for B->PP (P stands for a
pseudoscalar meson), the U-spin relation is expected to be violated for only
one decay pair by assuming that new physics affects only b->s transition
processes. We also very shortly discuss the polarizations of two types of
U-spin pairs for B->VV (V stands for a vector meson).

I study the physical meaning of Deformed, or Doubly, Special Relativity
(DSR). I argue that DSR could be physically relevant in a certain
large-distance limit. I consider a concrete physical effect: the gravitational
slowing down of time due to the gravitational potential well of a
massive-particle, and its effect on the dynamics of the particle itself. I
argue that this physical effect can survive in a limit in which gravitation and
quantum mechanics can be disregarded, and that taking it into account leads
directy to the Girelli-Livine DSR formalism. This provides a physical
interpretation to the corresponding 5d spacetime, and a concrete physical
derivation of DSR.

A short overview of theoretical methods for B physics at hadron colliders is
presented. The main emphasis is on the theory of two-body hadronic B decays,
which provide a rich field of investigation in particular for the Tevatron and
the LHC. The subject holds both interesting theoretical challenges as well as
many opportunities for flavor studies and new physics tests. A brief review of
the current status and recent developments is given. A few additional topics in
B physics are also mentioned.

The Commission 11 (C11) on Particles and Fields of the International Union of
Pure and Applied Physics (IUPAP) supervises the organization of the main
conferences in particle physics. In the period 2007-2008 it has been active in
the oversight and venue selection for the ICHEP and Lepton Photon Conferences,
establishment of the new conference on Technology and Instrumentation in
Particle Physics (TIPP), the selection of the prize winners for the IUPAP Young
Scientist Prize in Particle Physics and the establishment of a working group on
the "Assessment of Individual Achievements in Large Collaborations in Particle
Physics".

Paradoxes are a very frequent phenomenon in processes of thought which strive
towards the intelectual and cognitive shifts. They occur in all areas of human
spiritual activites. What we are interested here in, are the paradoxes in
physics. We will try to give the answers to the questions such as: What are the
reasons for developing the paradox in physics? Can a certain kind of
classification of paradoxes in physics be nade and on what basis? What exactly
is the paradox in phisics? What is the opinion of the physicists on paradox and
what significance do they give to it?

A unified theoretical treatment is presented to describe the physics of
electron dynamics in semiconductor and graphene systems. Electron spin fast
alignment with the Zeeman magnetic field (physical or effective) is treated as
a form of adiabatic spin evolution which necessarily generates a monopole in
magnetic space. One could transform this monopole into the physical and
intuitive topological magnetic fields in the useful momentum (K) or real spaces
(R). The physics of electron dynamics related to spin Hall, torque,
oscillations and other technologically useful spinor effects can be inferred
from the topological magnetic fields in spintronic, graphene and other SU(2)
systems.

Biological membranes mainly consist of lipids and proteins. While the
proteins have many functions as single molecules, the membrane as a whole
displays physical properties that cannot be explained on the single molecule
level. For example, membranes show melting events, phase behavior, and
elasticity. Biomembranes adapt their composition such that the physical
properties are maintained when the external conditions change. This gives a
role to changes in composition, to temperature and pressure. This article
introduces into the physics of membranes as a whole and shows how phenomena as
permeability, pulse propagation and the effect of anesthetics arise.

We demonstrate that for a broad class of physical systems that can be
described using classical field theory, automated runtime translation of the
physical equations to parallelized finite-element numerical simulation code is
feasible. This allows the implementation of multiphysics extension modules to
popular scripting languages (such as Python) that handle the complete
specification of the physical system at script level. We discuss two example
applications that utilize this framework: the micromagnetic simulation package
"Nmag" as well as a short Python script to study morphogenesis in a
reaction-diffusion model.

Using well-known methods we generalize (hyper)virial theorems to case of
singular potential. Discussion is performed for most general second order
differential equation, which involves all physically interesting cases, as
Schrodinger and Klein-Gordon equations with singular potentials. Some physical
consequences are discussed. The connection with Feynman-Hellmann like theorems
are also considered and some relevant differences are underlined.

Yurii Fedorovich Smirnov (1935-2008) was a famous theoretical physicist. He
achieved his career mainly at the Institute of Nuclear Physics of Moscow. These
notes describe some particular facets of the contributions of the late
Professor Smirnov in theoretical physics and mathematical physics. They also
relate some personal reminiscences on Yurii Smirnov in connection with some of
his numerous works.

I present a brief overview of some exciting possibilities for physics Beyond
the Standard Model. I include short discussions of neutrino physics, the strong
CP problem and axions, GUTs, large and warped extra dimensions, Little Higgs
models and supersymmetry. The chances appear excellent that in the next few
years-- as the LHC era gets underway-- data from a bevy of experiments will
point the way to a new paradigm for the laws of physics as we know them.

We review here the prospects of a long-term upgrade programme for the Large
Hadron Collider (LHC), CERN laboratory's new proton-proton collider. The
super-LHC, which is currently under evaluation and design, is expected to
deliver of the order of ten times the statistics of the LHC. In addition to a
non-technical summary of the principal physics arguments for the upgrade, I
present a pedagogical introduction to the technological challenges on the
accelerator and experimental fronts, and a review of the current status of the
planning.

The axisymmetric static solution of Born-Infeld nonlinear electrodynamics
with ring singularity is investigated. This solution is considered as a static
part of massive charged particle with spin and magnetic moment. The method for
obtaining the appropriate approximate solution is proposed. An approximate
solution is found. The values of spin, mass, and magnetic moment is obtained
for this approximate solution.

A cosmological model with a cyclic interpretation is introduced, which is
subject to quantum back-reaction and yet can be treated rather completely by
physical coherent state as well as effective constraint techniques. By this
comparison, the role of quantum back-reaction in quantum cosmology is
unambiguously demonstrated. Also the complementary nature of strengths and
weaknesses of the two procedures is illustrated. Finally, effective constraint
techniques are applied to a more realistic model filled with radiation, where
physical coherent states are not available.

The paradoxes of thermodynamics and statistical physics are unavoidable in
the study of physical paradoxes because of their importance at the time they
came to be as well as the frequency of their appearance in historical studies
of physics. In this work paradoxes are presented together with the historical
studies of their creation, their solutions are given and they are analysed
according to a number of characteristics: is it an exparadox, is it of
theoretic or experimental nature, is it a thought experiment and the type of
paradox it belongs to.

We examine the completeness of bi-orthogonal sets of eigenfunctions for
non-Hermitian Hamiltonians possessing a spectral singularity. The correct
resolutions of identity are constructed for delta like and smooth potentials.
Their form and the contribution of a spectral singularity depend on the class
of functions employed for physical states. With this specification there is no
obstruction to completeness originating from a spectral singularity.

We argue that supersymmetric transformation could be applied across the
heterojunction formed by joining of two mixed semiconductors. A general
framework is described by specifying the structure of ladder operators at the
junction for making quantitative estimation of physical quantities. For a
particular heterojunction device, we show that an exponential grading inside a
nanoscale doped layer is amenable to exact analytical treatment for a class of
potentials distorted by the junctions through the solutions of transformed
Morse-Type potentials.

I discuss LHC physics in the historical perspective of the progress in
particle physics. After a recap of the Standard Model of particle physics, I
discuss the high energy colliders leading up to LHC and their role in the
discovery of these SM particles. Then I discuss the two main physics issues of
LHC, i.e. Higgs mechanism and Supersymmetry. I briefly touch upon Higgs and
SUSY searches at LHC along with their cosmological implications.

In this review I sketch the basic criteria and boundary conditions which have
guided the design of the LHC detectors. The discussion will concentrate on the
so-called general-purpose experiments, ATLAS and CMS. After an overview of the
detector's characteristics and performance, I will elaborate on the expected
measurements of hard processes, with emphasis on jet and vector boson
production, i.e., tests of Quantum Chromodynamics (QCD) and Electroweak
Physics.

These are notes of lectures given at the Third School of Theoretical Physics
in Jijel (Algeria, September 2009). The subject of these notes is differential
geometry, complex and quaternionic structures with applications to theoretical
physics. Concerning the physical applications, they contain several aspects of
Penrose transformation in the Riemannian context (Euclidean signature) and
various formulations of the Yang-Mills and Einstein equations among which
several are unusual ones.

A brief survey of the author's works on the fundamental conceptual ideas of
quantum statistical physics developed by N. N. Bogoliubov and his school was
given. The development and applications of the method of quasiaverages to
quantum statistical physics and condensed matter physics were analyzed. The
relationship with the concepts of broken symmetry, quantum protectorate and
emergence was examined, and the progress to date towards unified understanding
of complex many-particle systems was summarized. Current trends for extending
and using these ideas in quantum field theory and condensed matter physics were
discussed, including microscopic theory of superfluidity and superconductivity,
quantum theory of magnetism of complex materials, Bose-Einstein condensation,
chirality of molecules, etc.

Life at Caltech with Murray Gell-Mann in the early 1960's is remembered. Our
different paths to quarks, leading to different views of their reality, are
described.

We consider quantum mechanical effects of the modified Newtonian potential in
the presence of extra compactified dimensions. We develop a method to solve the
resulting Schroedinger equation and determine the energy shifts caused by the
Yukawa-type corrections of the potential. We comment on the possibility of
detecting the modified gravitational bound state Energy spectrum by present day
and future experiments.

Physics beyond the standard model can affect top-quark physics indirectly. We
describe the effective field theory approach to describing such physics, and
contrast it with the vertex-function approach that has been pursued previously.
We argue that the effective field theory approach has many fundamental
advantages and is also simpler.

The real physical space is derived from a mathematical space constructed as a
tessellation lattice of primary balls, or superparticles. Mathematical
characteristics, such as distance, surface and volume, generate in the fractal
tessellation lattice the basic physical notions (mass, particle, the particle's
de Broglie wavelength and so on) and the corresponding fundamental physical
laws. The submicroscopic mechanics developed in the tessellattice easily
results in the conventional quantum mechanical formalism at a larger atomic
scale and Newton's gravitational law at a macroscopic scale.

We briefly discuss construction of energy-dependent effective non-hermitian
hamiltonians for studying resonances in open disordered systems

The European School of High-Energy Physics is intended to give young
physicists an introduction to the theoretical aspects of recent advances in
elementary particle physics. These proceedings contain lecture notes on quantum
field theory, quantum chromodynamics, physics beyond the Standard Model,
flavour physics, effective field theory, cosmology, as well as statistical data
analysis.

The methods developed by authors are applied to some reductions of BBGKY
hierarchy, namely, various examples of Vlasov-like systems which are important
both for fusion modeling and for particular physical problems related to
plasma/beam physics. We mostly concentrate on phenomena of localization and
pattern formation.

In the present contribution the construction of particle physics models in
theories with fuzzy extra dimensions is discussed. We focus on a bottom-up
approach where the structure of a higher-dimensional theory arises within
ordinary four-dimensional field theory via an appropriate mechanism based on
spontaneous symmetry breaking. Subsequently, possible ways to obtain particle
physics models with realistic spectrum in this framework are exhibited.

We present a criterion for deciding which compact extra dimensional spaces
yield physically reliable Newton's law corrections. We study compact manifolds
with boundary and without boundary. The boundary conditions which we use on the
boundaries are Dirichlet or Neumann. We find that compact connected Riemannian
manifolds with Dirichlet boundaries are completely excluded as extra
dimensional spaces.

Data taking at the LHC is the beginning of a new era in particle physics
which will lead us towards understanding the completion of the Standard Model
at and beyond the TeV scale. I discuss different approaches to new physics
searches: driven by experimental anomalies, driven by model building, or driven
by new analysis ideas. All of them have their place as long as we keep an open
mind and see their opportunities as well as their limitations.

Prospective presentation is given for the experimental program of the KLOE-2
Collaboration, to be performed using the DA$\Phi$NE $e^+e^-$ collider upgraded
in luminosity. Data with the total luminosity of 25 fb$^{-1}$ are aimed to be
collected in 3 years. Major modifications of the accelerator and the
spectrometer are described. The KLOE-2 physics program contains: CKM unitarity
and lepton universality tests, $\gamma\gamma$ physics, search for quantum
decoherence and testing CPT conservation, low-energy QCD, rare kaon decays,
physics of $\eta$ and $\eta^\prime$, structure of low-mass scalars,
contribution of vacuum polarization to $(g-2)_{\mu}$, possible search for WIMP
dark matter. In this paper only selected physics subjects are reported.

These lecture notes in Lie Groups are designed for a 1--semester third year
or graduate course in mathematics, physics, engineering, chemistry or biology.
This landmark theory of the 20th Century mathematics and physics gives a
rigorous foundation to modern dynamics, as well as field and gauge theories in
physics, engineering and biomechanics. We give both physical and medical
examples of Lie groups. The only necessary background for comprehensive reading
of these notes are advanced calculus and linear algebra.

These lectures are directed at a level suitable for graduate students in
experimental and theoretical High Energy Physics. They are intended to give an
introduction to the theory and phenomenology of quantum chromodynamics (QCD) as
it is used in collider physics applications. The aim is to bring the reader to
a level where informed decisions can be made concerning different approaches
and their uncertainties. The material is divided into four main areas: 1)
fundamentals, 2) perturbative QCD, 3) soft QCD, and 4) Monte Carlo event
generators.

LHCb is a dedicated detector for $b$ and $c$ physics at the LHC. I will
present a concise review of the detector design and performance together with a
selection of early physics results and prospects. The integrated luminosity of
$37 \rm{pb}^{-1}$ collected in 2010 has already allowed LHCb to perform a
number of a very significant measurements, while the data expected for 2011
have the potential of revealing New Physics effects in the $B_s $ sector.

Decays of B mesons offer interesting probes to search for physics beyond the
Standard Model. Thanks to the data taking at the LHC, we are at the beginning
of a new era of precision B physics. I will discuss recent developments
concerning the analyses of promising channels to search for signals of New
Physics at the LHC, B^0_s -> J/psi phi, B^0_s -> K^+K^- and B^0_s -> mu^+ mu^-.

The feasibility of computationally superior quantum computers is one of the
most exciting and clear-cut scientific questions of our time. The question
touches on fundamental issues regarding probability, physics, and
computability, as well as on exciting problems in experimental physics,
engineering, computer science, and mathematics. We propose three related
directions towards a negative answer. The first is a conjecture about physical
realizations of quantum codes, the second has to do with correlations in
stochastic physical systems, and the third proposes a model for quantum
evolutions when noise accumulates. The paper is dedicated to the memory of
Itamar Pitowsky.

Is the universe digital or analog? In this essay I argue that both classical
and quantum physics include limits that prevent us from definitively answering
that question. That quantum physics does so is no surprise. That classical
physics does so is rather unexpected. In fact, I argue that classical physics
is itself really nothing more than a convenient approximation. Either way, it
turns out that our knowledge of the universe is discrete and so it is
extraordinarily difficult, perhaps even impossible, to determine the underlying
continuity of the universe itself.

I offer one possible explanation of why inertial and gravitational mass are
equal in Newtonian gravitation. I then argue that this is an example of a kind
of explanation that is not captured by standard philosophical accounts of
scientific explanation. Moreover, this form of explanation is particularly
important, at least in physics, because demands for this kind of explanation
are used to motivate and shape research into the next generation of physical
theories. I suggest that explanations of the sort I describe reveal something
important about one way in which physical theories can be related
diachronically.

The Schroedinger equation is up-to-a-phase invariant under the Galilei group.
This phase leads to the Bargmann's superselection rule, which forbids the
existence of the superposition of states with different masses and implies that
unstable particles cannot be described consistently in non-relativistic quantum
mechanics. In this paper we claim that Bargmann's rule neglects physical
effects and that a proper description of non-relativistic quantum mechanics
requires to take into account this phase through the Extended Galilei group and
the definition of its action on spacetime coordinates.

Precision measurements in charm physics offer a window into a unique sector
of potential New Physics interactions. LHCb is poised to become a world leading
experiment for charm physics, recording enormous samples with a detector
tailored for flavor physics. This article presents recent charm production,
CPV, and mixing studies from LHCb, including LHCb's first charm CP asymmetry
measurement with 37 pb^-1 of data collected in 2010.

Commercial video games are increasingly using sophisticated physics
simulations to create a more immersive experience for players. This also makes
them a powerful tool for engaging students in learning physics. We provide some
examples to show how commercial off-the-shelf games can be used to teach
specific topics in introductory undergraduate physics. The examples are
selected from a course taught predominantly through the medium of commercial
video games.

The neutral kaon meson mixing plays an important role in test of the Standard
Model (SM) and new physics beyond it. Scale invariant unparticle physics
induces a flavor changing neutral current (FCNC) transition of $K^0-\bar K^0$
oscillation at the tree level. In this study, we investigate the scale
invariant unparticle physics effects on the $K^0-\bar K^0$ mixing. Based on the
current experimental data, we give constraints of $K^0-\bar K^0$ mixing on the
unparticle parameters.

This document describes my talk (based on work by JoAnne Hewett, Sandip
Pakvasa, Alexey Petrov, Gagik Yeghiyan and myself) given at the 2011 Meeting of
the Division of Particles and Fields of the American Physical Society
(8/9/11-8/13/11) hosted by the Physics Department at Brown University. We
perform a study of the Standard Model (SM) fit to the mixing quantity Delta
M_B_s in order to bound contributions of New Physics (NP) to B_s mixing. We
then use this to explore the branching fraction of B_s->mu+mu- in several
models of New Physics.

An outreach effort has started at Michigan State University to bring particle
physics, the Large Hadron Collider, and the ATLAS experiment to a general
audience at the Abrams planetarium on the MSU campus. A team of undergraduate
students majoring in physics, communications arts & sciences, and journalism
are putting together short clips about ATLAS and the LHC to be shown at the
planetarium.

Lectures on self-gravitating black holes and monopoles given at a Summer
School in Lisbon in 1990 which contain material still of relevance.

Weyl's original scale geometry of 1918 ("purely infinitesimal geometry") was
withdrawn from physical theory in the early 1920s. It had a comeback in the
last third of the 20th century in different contexts: scalar tensor theories of
gravity, foundations of physics (gravity, quantum mechanics), elementary
particle physics, and cosmology. Here we survey the last two segments. It seems
that Weyl geometry continues to have an open research potential for the
foundations of physics after the turn of the century.

We present the quantum limits to the magnetic sensitivity of a new kind of
magnetometer based on biochemical reactions. Radical-ion-pair reactions, the
biochemical system underlying the chemical compass, are shown to offer a new
and unique physical realization of a magnetic field sensor competitive to
modern atomic or condensed matter magnetometers. We elaborate on the quantum
coherence and entanglement dynamics of this sensor, showing that they provide
the physical basis for testing our understanding of the fundamental quantum
dynamics of radical-ion-pair reactions.

I consider selected (most important according to my own choice) unsolved
problems in particle theory, both those related to extensions of the Standard
Model (neutrino oscillations, which probably do not fit the usual
three-generation scheme; indications in favour of new physics from
astrophysical observations; electroweak symmetry breaking and hierarchy of
parameters) and those which appear in the Standard Model (description of strong
interactions at low and intermediate energies).

A learning path on radioactivity in the last class of high school is
presented. An introduction to radioactivity and nuclear phenomenology is
followed by measurements of natural radioactivity. Background and weak sources
are monitored for days or weeks. The data are analyzed in order to understand
the importance of statistical analysis in modern physics.

We investigate two seemingly disjoint definitions of helicity, one commonly
used in particle physics, the other one used when studying bilinear covariants
of Clifford algebras. We can prove that the `mathematical' definition of
helicity implies its `physical' counterpart. As an unexpected application of
our result we show that the Hamiltonian describing the one-layer superconductor
Graphene is proportional to the trace of an operator that is used in the
`mathematical' definition of helicity.

One of the most basic properties of magnetism is that a magnet always has two
poles, north and south, which cannot be separated into isolated poles, i.e.,
magnetic monopoles. However, there are strong theoretical arguments why
magnetic monopoles should exist. In spite of extensive searches they have not
been found, but they have nevertheless played a central role in our
understanding of physics at the most fundamental level.

We in the physics community expect the LHC to uncover new physics in the next
few years. The character and energy scale of the new physics remain unclear,
but it is likely that data from the LHC will need to be complemented by
information from a lepton collider which can provide for precise examination of
new phenomena. We describe the concept, accelerator design, and detector R&D
for a high energy Muon Collider as well as the challenges associated with the
machine and its detector environment.

2011 marked the hundredth anniversary both of the famous Solvay conferences,
and of the Geiger-Marsden experiment that launched the modern understanding of
subatomic structure. I was asked to survey the status and prospects of particle
physics for the anniversary Solvay conference, with appropriate perspective.
This is my attempt.

We classify the unitary representations of the extended Poincar\'e
supergroups in three dimensions. Irreducible unitary representations of any
spin can appear, which correspond to supersymmetric anyons. Our results also
show that all irreducible unitary representations necessarily have physical
momenta. This is in sharp contrast to the ordinary Poincar\'e group in three
dimensions, that admits in addition irreducible unitary representations with
non-physical momenta, which are discarded on physical grounds.

A novel method for extracting physical parameters from experimental and
simulation data is presented. The method is based on statistical concepts and
it relies on Monte Carlo simulation techniques. It identifies and determines
with maximal precision parameters that are sensitive to the data. The method
has been extensively studied and it is shown to produce unbiased results. It is
applicable to a wide range of scientific and engineering problems. It has been
successfully applied in the analysis of experimental data in hadronic physics
and of lattice QCD correlators.

A summary of relevant contributions, ordered in time, to the subject of
operator zeta functions and their application to physical issues is provided.
The description ends with the seminal contributions of Stephen Hawking and
Stuart Dowker and collaborators, considered by many authors as the actual
starting point of the introduction of zeta function regularization methods in
theoretical physics, in particular, for quantum vacuum fluctuation and Casimir
effect calculations. After recalling a number of the strengths of this powerful
and elegant method, some of its limitations are discussed. Finally, recent
results of the so called operator regularization procedure are presented.

Nonlinear SUSY approach to preparation of quantum systems with pre-planned
spectral properties is reviewed. Possible multidimensional extensions of
Nonlinear SUSY are described. The full classification of ladder-reducible and
irreducible chains of SUSY algebras in one-dimensional QM is given. Emergence
of hidden symmetries and spectrum generating algebras is elucidated in the
context of Nonlinear SUSY in one- and two-dimensional QM.

This is a philosophy-intense physics article, or, if you wish, a
physics-intense philosophy article. Also, being a mathematician, I tend to view
the physics, in particular the essence of quantum physics, in emphasizing the
mathematical structure that serves as its language. However, I do express views
on typically philosophical/epistemological matters. Since these points of view
do not seem to me too widely expressed in the literature, while I find them
quite compelling, I think this note has some interest.

The theoretical investigations at ITEP in the years 1945-1958 are reviewed.
There are exposed the most important theoretical results, obtained in the
following branches of physics: 1) the theory of nuclear reactors on thermal
neutrons; 2) the hydrogen bomb project ("Tube" in USSR and "Classical Super" in
USA); 3) radiation theory; ~4) low temperature physics; 5) quantum
electrodynamics and quantum field theories; 6) parity violation in weak
interactions, the theory of $\beta$-decay and other weak processes; 7) strong
interaction and nuclear physics. To the review are added the English
translations of few papers, originally published in Russian, but unknown (or
almost unknown) to Western readers.

Charm physics has been established at the LHC based on several high-precision
measurements. The future of charm physics at the LHC experiments is discussed
in detail. The bulk of the charm physics programme will be performed by LHCb
and the LHCb upgrade. In particular, the impact of the LHCb upgrade on mixing
and \CP violation measurements is presented.

An overview of the evolution of computing-oriented publications in high
energy physics following the start of operation of LHC. Quantitative analyses
are illustrated, which document the production of scholarly papers on
computing-related topics by high energy physics experiments and core tools
projects, and the citations they receive. Several scientometric indicators are
analyzed to characterize the role of computing in high energy physics
literature. Distinctive features of software-oriented and hardware-oriented
scholarly publications are highlighted. Current patterns and trends are
compared to the situation in previous generations' experiments.

Recently, gauge field theory approaches were extensively used in order to
discuss the physical consequences of spin-orbit interactions in condensed
matter physics. An SU(2)$\times$U(1) gauge theory is very naturally borne out
and provides an illustrative example of a classical Yang-Mills field theory at
work. This approach may serve as an exemplification of non-Abelian field
theories for students in general physics curriculum. It allows to introduce
discussions on fundamental ideas like Noether currents, gauge symmetry
principle, gauge symmetry breaking and non linear Yang Mills equations in very
concrete physical situations that makes it accessible to a broad audience.

The aim of this article is to review the very important role played by
radiative corrections in precision electroweak physics, in the framework of
both the Fermi Theory of Weak Interactions and the Standard Theory of Particle
Physics. Important theoretical developments, closely connected with the study
and applications of the radiative corrections, are also reviewed. The role of
radiative corrections in the analysis of some important signals of new physics
is also discussed.

A kinetic theory is developed to describe radiating electrons whose motion is
governed by the Lorentz-Dirac equation. This gives rise to a generalized Vlasov
equation coupled to an equation for the evolution of the physical submanifold
of phase space. The pathological solutions of the 1-particle theory may be
removed by expanding the latter equation in powers of $\tau := q^2/ 6\pi m$.
The radiation-induced change in entropy is explored, and its physical origin is
discussed. As a simple demonstration of the theory, the radiative damping rate
of longitudinal plasma waves is calculated.

We analyse the non-abelian algebra and the supersymmetric cohomology
associated to the local and non-local conserved charges of N=1 SKdV under
Poisson brackets. We then consider the breaking of the supersymmetry and obtain
an integrable model in terms of Clifford algebra valued fields. We discuss the
remaining conserved charges of the new system and the stability of the
solitonic solutions.

We give a summary of a talk delivered at the 2012 International Congress on
Mathematical Physics. We review d=4, N=2 quantum field theory and some of the
exact statements which can be made about it. We discuss the wall-crossing
phenomenon. An interesting application is a new construction of hyperkahler
metrics on certain manifolds. Then we discuss geometric constructions which
lead to exact results on the BPS spectra for some d=4, N=2 field theories and
on expectation values of -- for example -- Wilson line operators. These new
constructions have interesting relations to a number of other areas of physical
mathematics.

In this work we investigate the $q$-deformation of the $so(4)$ dynamical
symmetry of the hydrogen atom using the theory of the quantum group $su_q(2)$.
We derive the energy spectrum in a physically consistent manner and find a
degeneracy breaking as well as a smaller Hilbert space. We point out that using
the deformed Casimir as was done before leads to inconsistencies in the
physical interpretation of the theory.

After reviewing the Lounesto spinor field classification, according to the
bilinear covariants associated to a spinor field, we call attention and unravel
some prominent features involving unexpected properties about spinor fields
under such classification. In particular, we pithily focus on the new aspects
--- as well as current concrete possibilities. They mainly arise when we deal
with some non-standard spinor fields concerning, in particular, their
applications in physics.

Flavour changing neutral currents are only allowed via loop diagrams in the
Standard Model (SM). Electroweak penguin processes are therefore sensitive
probes for new physics, as physics beyond the Standard Model can enter via
virtual particles at the same level as SM physics. The LHCb detector at the LHC
with its forward geometry is ideally suited for the analysis of electroweak
penguin processes in $B$ meson decays. All analyses are performed with 1
fb$^{-1}$ of collision data recorded at a centre-of-mass energy of 7 TeV in
2011 and constrain new physics models.

We study generalized Dirac oscillators with complex interactions in $(1+1)$
dimensions. It is shown that for the choice of interactions considered here,
the Dirac Hamiltonians are $\eta$ pseudo Hermitian with respect to certain
metric operators $\eta$. Exact solutions of the generalized Dirac Oscillator
for some choices of the interactions have also been obtained. It is also shown
that generalized Dirac oscillators can be identified with Anti Jaynes Cummings
type model and by spin flip it can also be identified with Jaynes Cummings type
model.

In this paper we consider the total space of the canonical bundle of P^2 and
we use a proposal by Hosono, together with results in Seidel and
Auroux-Katzarkov-Orlov, to deduce the right physical mirror equivalence between
D^b(K_{P^2}) and the derived Fukaya category of its mirror. By construction,
our equivalence is compatible with the mirror map between moduli spaces and
with the computation of Gromov--Witten invariants.

We discuss physical implications of the explicit method in numerical
analysis. Numerical methods have there own condition for causality, known as
the Courant-Friedrichs-Lewy condition. It is proposed that numerical causality
merges with physical causality as the grid interval size approaches zero. We
discuss the implications of this proposition on the numerical analysis of the
wave equation. We also show that, insisting on physical causality, the
numerical analysis of Schrodinger's equation implies that the minimum space
interval should satisfy $\Delta x \ge a_0 \lambda_c$, where $\lambda_c$ is the
reduced Compton wavelength and $a_0$ is a constant of the order unity.

Taking quantum formalism as a point of reference and connection, we explore
the various possibilities that arise in the construction of physical theories.
Analyzing the distinct physical phenomena that each of them may describe, we
introduce the different types of hidden variables theories that correspond to
these physical phenomena. A hierarchical classification of the offered
theories, based on the degree of correlation between dichotomic observables in
bipartite systems, as quantified by a Bell type inequality, is finally
proposed.

We review the results of solar neutrino physics, with particular attention to
the data obtained and the analyses performed in the last decades, which were
determinant to solve the solar neutrino problem (SNP), proving that neutrinos
are massive and oscillating particles and contributing to refine the solar
models. We also discuss the perspectives of the presently running experiments
in this sector and of the ones planned for the near future and the impact they
can have on elementary particle physics and astrophysics.

These lectures give a topical review of heavy flavour physics, in particular
\CP violation and rare decays, from an experimental point of view. They
describe the ongoing motivation to study heavy flavour physics in the LHC era,
the current status of the field emphasising key results from previous
experiments, some selected topics in which new results are expected in the near
future, and a brief look at future projects.

After the discovery of a Higgs-like boson with a mass of m~125 GeV at the
LHC, we can now attempt to draw conclusions about physics beyond the Standard
Model. I argue that there are several hints towards new physics at intermediate
scales > 10^8 GeV. I review a class of stringy models with intermediate scale
SUSY which relate the observed Higgs mass to symmetries of the Higgs sector. I
then discuss radiative corrections to m_h, unification, dark matter and the
possibility of classically unstable UV completions in these models.

Using well-known methods we generalize (hyper)virial theorems to case of
singular potential. Discussion is carried on for most general second order
differential equation, which involves all physically interesting cases, such as
Schr\"odinger and two-body Klein-Gordon equations with singular potentials.
Some physical consequences are discussed. The connection with Feynman-Hellmann
like theorems are also considered and some relevant differences are underlined.

The Institute for Physical Science and Technology at the University of
Maryland was founded in 1976 from a merger of the Institute for Fluid Dynamics
and Applied Mathematics (IFDAM) and the Institute for Molecular Physics (IMP),
which were established at the College Park Campus after World War II to enhance
the expertise of the University of Maryland in some areas of science and
technology of interest to the US Department of Defense. Here I try to
reconstruct the history of the Institute for Molecular Physics at the
University of Maryland.

Dimensional analysis is a simple qualitative method for determining essential
connections between physical quantities. It is applicable to a multitude of
physics problems, many of which canbe introduced early on in a university
physics curriculum. Despite the relative simplicity of theapproach, it is
rarely included in physics curricula. Here, we apply dimensional analysis to
find the radiated power from an electric dipole. Employing dimensional
analysis, we demonstrate a straightforward way to derive the latter without the
need for complex mathematical treatments.

With the full Tevatron data set collected and being analyzed, many new
results have been recently released. This includes heavy flavor physics studies
such as CP violation parameter measurements with B^{+/-} -> J/\psi K^{+/-} and
B^{+/-} -> J/\psi pi^{+/-} and $D^0-D^0bar mixing. Of the QCD and electroweak
results, photon plus heavy flavor measurements and a search for anomalous
quartic gauge couplings will be reviewed. These various studies help to clarify
the agreement between data and physics models and to search for new physics.

The perception-related origins of physical measures and standards are
considered within the framework of the general observer theory. The impact of
observer characteristics on the development of observer-centric physics,
physical concepts and metrics are analyzed. A preliminary theoretical approach
is suggested for the construction of a general observer theory and formulation
of its relationship to observer-centered physical concepts and theories. The
approach makes it possible to construct a theory of the observer, intrinsic in
any theory of physics.

This report summarizes the findings of the DPF Theory Panel which was formed
with a goal of understanding the scientific problems and opportunities of the
next decade, as well as the challenges involved in sustaining a first-class
program in theoretical particle physics research in the United States.

Between the Tevatron and LHC, top-quark physics is now becoming an area for
precision physics. This has lead to an increase in theoretical activity to
match the experimental accuracy of top anti-top production. We discuss the
difficulty in properly defining the top-quark mass as measured by experiments
and present results for differential distributions of top-quark pair production
in a running mass scheme. The use of such a scheme shows better convergence in
the perturbative expansion and improves the scale dependence as opposed to the
typical on-shell scheme.

These lectures review the background to Higgs physics, its current status
following the discovery of a/the Higgs boson at the LHC, models of Higgs
physics beyond the Standard Model and prospects for Higgs studies in future
runs of the LHC and at possible future colliders.

High-precision flavor physics measurements play a complementary role to the
direct searches for new physics by CMS and ATLAS experiments at LHC. Such
measurements will be performed with the Belle II detector at the upgraded KEKB
accelerator (SuperKEKB) in Japan. The physics potential with emphasis on the
charm sector, current status and future prospects of the Belle II experiment
are presented in these proceedings.

In these notes of six lectures on selected topics in the theory of cold,
dilute Bose gases, presented at the 5th Warsaw School of Statistical Physics in
June 2013, the following topics are discussed: 1) The concept of BEC, 2) the
ground state energy of a dilute Bose gas with short range interactions, 3)
Gross-Pitaevskii theory and BEC in trapped gases, 4) Bose gases in rotating
traps and quantized vortices, and 5) strongly correlated phases in the lowest
Landau level generated by rapid rotation.

In recent literature, it has become clear that quantum physics does not
refute Humeanism. This point has so far been made with respect to Bohms quantum
theory. Against this background, this paper seeks to achieve the following four
results: to generalize the option of quantum Humeanism from Bohmian mechanics
to primitive ontology theories in general, to show that this option applies
also to classical mechanics, to establish that it requires a commitment to
matter as primitive stuff, but no commitment to natural properties (physicalism
without properties, to point out that by removing the commitment to properties,
the stock metaphysical objections against Humeanism from quidditism and
humility no longer apply. In that way, quantum physics strengthens Humeanism
instead of refuting it.

When explaining to a lay audience the magnitude of forces or accelerations
imparted to vehicles or experienced by vehicle occupants during a motor vehicle
collision, it is often helpful to recast the critical results in terms of other
physical systems or impact configurations which will reproduce the equivalent
dynamics of the subject accident to serve as a conceptual aid for the audience.
In this article, we present the basis for such equivalents and explicitly
demonstrate, using two physics simulation software packages, that such
equivalents are based on nothing more than the application of the laws of
physics.

Category theory has become central to certain aspects of theoretical physics.
Bain [Synthese, 190:1621--1635 (2013)] has recently argued that this has
significance for ontic structural realism. We argue against this claim. In so
doing, we uncover two pervasive forms of category-theoretic generalization. We
call these `generalization by duality' and `generalization by categorifying
physical processes'. We describe in detail how these arise, and explain their
significance using detailed examples. We show that their significance is
two-fold: the articulation of high-level physical concepts, and the generation
of new models.

Using the predictive power of the effective field theory approach, we present
a physical parametrization of the leading effects beyond the SM (BSM), that
give us at present the best way to constrain heavy new-physics at low-energies.
We show that other BSM effects are not independent from these ones, and we
provide the explicit correlations. This information is useful to know where to
primarily look for new physics in future experiments, and to know how this new
physics is related to previous measurements, most importantly in
electroweak-symmetry breaking processes or Higgs physics.

We study the confinement of Dirac fermions in graphene and in carbon
nanotubes by an external magnetic field, mechanical deformations or
inhomogeneities in the substrate. By applying variational principles to the
square of the Dirac operator, we obtain sufficient and necessary conditions for
confinement of the quasi-particles. The rigorous theoretical results are
illustrated on the realistic examples of the three classes of traps.

Almost all theories of physics have expressed physical laws by means of
differential equations. One can ask: why differential equations? What is
special about them? This article addresses these questions and is presented as
an inquiry-based lecture, where students and a teacher are engaged in
discussion. It has two goals: (1) To help undergraduate students understand the
rationale behind the use of differential equations in physics, (2) To show how
meaningful and interactive presentation of mathematics can help students take
pleasure in learning physics.

The heaviest fermion is expected to couple strongly to new physics and
appears therefore as a natural probe in many BSM scenarios. Moreover, top
physics has now entered in a precision era thanks to the huge amount of top
quarks produced at hadron colliders, advanced experimental methods and accurate
theoretical predictions. In this talk, we will used effective field theory to
search for heavy new physics in a model independent way. This method can also
be used to quantify the room left for new physics if no deviation from the SM
is found.

To truly eliminate Cartesian ghosts from the science of consciousness, we
must describe consciousness as an aspect of the physical. Integrated
Information Theory states that consciousness arises from intrinsic information
generated by dynamical systems; however existing formulations of this theory
are not applicable to standard models of fundamental physical entities. Modern
physics has shown that fields are fundamental entities, and in particular that
the electromagnetic field is fundamental. Here I hypothesize that consciousness
arises from information intrinsic to fundamental fields. This hypothesis unites
fundamental physics with what we know empirically about the neuroscience
underlying consciousness, and it bypasses the need to consider quantum effects.

New physics effects in $B$ decays are routinely modeled through operators
invariant under the strong and electromagnetic gauge symmetries. Assuming the
scale for new physics is well above the electro-weak scale, we further require
invariance under the full Standard-Model gauge symmetry group. Retaining up to
dimension-6 operators, we unveil new constraints between different new-physics
operators that are assumed to be independent in the standard phenomenological
analyses. We illustrate this approach by analyzing the constraints on new
physics from rare $B_{q}$ (semi-)leptonic decays.

Thus far the LHC experiments have yet to discover beyond-the-standard-model
physics. This motivates efforts to search for new physics in model independent
ways. In this spirit, we describe procedures for using a variant of the Matrix
Element Method to search for new physics without regard to a specific signal
hypothesis. To make the resulting variables more intuitive, we also describe
how these variables can be "flattened", which makes the resulting distributions
more visually meaningful.

We present results from several searches for various exotic physics phenomena
like large extra dimensions, leptoquarks, and dark matter, in proton-proton
collisions at $\sqrt{s}$ = 7 and 8 TeV delivered by the LHC and collected with
the CMS detector. Many different final states are analyzed using data collected
in 2011 and 2012 corresponding to an integrated luminosity up to 5.0 fb$^{-1}$
and 19.7 fb$^{-1}$. No sign of physics beyond the standard model has been
observed so far and the results are used to set new limits on various new
physics model parameters.

We describe the theoretical ideas, developed between the 1950s-1970s, which
led to the prediction of the Higgs boson, the particle that was discovered in
2012. The forces of nature are based on symmetry principles. We explain the
nature of these symmetries through an economic analogy. We also discuss the
Higgs mechanism, which is necessary to avoid some of the naive consequences of
these symmetries, and to explain various features of elementary particles.

In this talk I discuss the role of heavy quarks in new physics searches with
tau leptons. I focus on new physics effects associated to the scalar sector
which are naturally enhanced for the heaviest fermions due to the large
hierarchy of the fermion masses. I will discuss two topics within this context:
lepton flavour violation in the $\tau - \ell$ ($\ell=e,\mu$) sector and
violations of lepton universality in tauonic $B$ decays.

The paper discusses the following topics: spinor coverings for the full
Lorentz group, intrinsic parity of fermions, Majorana fermions, spinor
structure of space models, two types of spacial spinors, parametrization of
spinor spaces by curvilinear coordinates, manifestation of spinor space
structure in classifying solutions of the quantum-mechanical equations and in
the matrix elements for physical quantities.

With the discovery of the Higgs, we have access to a plethora of new physical
processes that allow us to further test the SM and beyond. We show a convenient
way to parametrize these physics using an effective theory for Higgs couplings,
discussing the importance of the basis selection, predictions from a SM
effective field theory, and possible ways to measure these couplings with
special attention to the high-energy regime. Predictions from the MSSM and
MCHM, with the comparison with data, are also provided.

Starting from the guiding principles of spacetime locality and
operationalism, a general framework for a probabilistic description of nature
is proposed. Crucially, no notion of time or metric is assumed, neither any
specific physical model. Remarkably, the emerging framework converges with a
recently proposed formulation of quantum theory, obtained constructively from
known quantum physics. At the same time the framework also admits statistical
theories of classical physics.

The dynamics of quantum field theories on bounded domains requires the
introduction of boundary conditions on the quantum fields. We address the
problem from a very general perspective by using charge conservation as a
fundamental principle for scalar and fermionic quantum field theories.
Unitarity arises as a consequence of the choice of charge preserving boundary
conditions. This provides a powerful framework for the analysis of global
geometrical and topological properties of the space of physical boundary
conditions. Boundary conditions which allow the existence of edge states can
only arise in theories with a mass gap which is also a physical requirement for
topological insulators.

This note analyzes the physical basis of J.R. England's paper "Statistical
physics of self-replication." [J. Chem. Phys. {\bf 139}, 121923(2013)]. We
follow England's use of time-reversal symmetry but replace stochastic by
deterministic dynamics, and introduce a definition of metastable states based
on equilibrium statistical mechanics. We rederive England's detailed balance
relation and obtain another similar relation which appears more natural and
remains valid for quantum systems. The detailed balance relations are based on
serious physical ideas, and either of them can be used for England's biological
discussion. This biological discussion does of course deserve further scrutiny.

We study the Dirac-Maxwell model quantized in the Lorenz gauge. In this
gauge, the space of quantum mechanical state vectors inevitably be an
indefinite metric vector space so that the canonical commutation relation (CCR)
is realized in a Lorentz covariant manner. In order to obtain a physical
subspace in which no negative norm state exists, the method first proposed by
Gupta and Bleuler is applied with mathematical rigor. It is proved that a
suitably defined physical subspace has a positive semi-definit metric, and
naturally induces a physical Hilbert space with a positive definite metric. The
original Dirac-Maxwell Hamiltonian naturally defines an induced Hamiltonian on
the physical Hilbert space which is essentially self-adjoint.

The main physics results obtained by the CMS experiment during the first
three years of operation of the CERN Large Hadron Collider (2010--2013, aka.
Run 1) are summarized. The advances in our understanding of the fundamental
particles and their interactions are succinctly reviewed under the following
physics topics: (i) Quantum Chromodynamics, (ii) Quark Gluon Plasma, (iii)
Electroweak interaction, (iv) Top quark, (v) Higgs boson, (vi) Flavour, (vii)
Supersymmetry, (viii) Dark Matter, and (ix) other searches of physics beyond
the Standard Model.

Precision probes of new physics are often interpreted through their indirect
sensitivity to short-distance scales. In this proceedings contribution, we
focus on the question of which precision observables, at current sensitivity
levels, allow for an interpretation via either short-distance new physics or
consistent models of long-distance new physics, weakly coupled to the Standard
Model. The electroweak scale is chosen to set the dividing line between these
scenarios. In particular, we find that inverse see-saw models of neutrino mass
allow for light new physics interpretations of most precision leptonic
observables, such as lepton universality, lepton flavor violation, but not for
the electron EDM.

Very little is known about how the nature of expertise in introductory and
advanced courses compares in knowledge-rich domains such as physics. We develop
a framework to compare the similarities and differences between learning and
patterns of student difficulties in introductory physics and quantum mechanics.
Based upon our framework, we argue that the qualitative patterns of student
reasoning difficulties in introductory physics bear a striking resemblance to
those found for upper-level quantum mechanics. The framework can guide the
design of teaching and learning tools.

The claim some years ago, contrary to all textbooks, that the angular
momentum of a photon (and gluon) can be split in a gauge-invariant way into an
orbital and spin term, sparked a major controversy in the Particle Physics
community. A further cause of upset was the realization that the gluon
polarization in a nucleon, a supposedly physically meaningful quantity,
corresponds only to the gauge-variant gluon spin derived from Noether's
theorem, evaluated in a particular gauge. On the contrary, Laser Physicists
have, for decades, been happily measuring physical quantities which correspond
to orbital and spin angular momentum evaluated in a particular gauge. This
paper reconciles the two points of view.

Entropy is a quantity which is of great importance in physics and chemistry.
The concept comes out of thermodynamics, proposed by Rudolf Clausius in his
analysis of Carnot cycle and linked by Ludwig Boltzmann to the number of
specific ways in which a physical system may be arranged. Any physics
classroom, in its task of learning physics, has therefore to face this crucial
concept. As we will show in this paper, the lectures can be enriched by
discussing dimensional equations linked to the entropy of some physical
systems.

We investigate the quantization in the Heisenberg representation of a model
which represents a simplification of the Hopfield model for dielectric media,
where the electromagnetic field is replaced by a scalar field $\phi$ and the
role of the polarization field is played by a further scalar field $\psi$. The
model, which is quadratic in the fields, is still characterized by a nontrivial
physical content, as the physical particles correspond to the polaritons of the
standard Hopfield model of condensed matter physics. Causality is also taken
into account and a discussion of the standard interaction representation is
also considered.

The possibility of fundamental theories with very many ground states, each
with different physical parameters, changes the way that we approach the major
questions of particle physics. Most importantly, it raises the possibility that
these different parameters could be realised in different domains in the larger
universe. In this review, we survey the motivations for the multiverse and
impact of the idea of the multiverse on the search for new physics beyond the
Standard Model.

We consider C1 Anosov diffeomorphisms on a compact Riemannian manifold. We
define the weak pseudo-physical measures, which include the physical measures
when these latter exist. We prove that ergodic weak pseudo-physical measures do
exist, and that the set of invariant probability measures that satisfy Pesin's
Entropy Formula is the weak*-closed convex hull of the ergodic weak
pseudo-physical measures. In brief, we give in the C1-scenario of uniform
hyperbolicity, a characterization of Pesin's Entropy Formula in terms of
physical-like properties.

We re-investigate electroweak signal-background interference in associated
Higgs production via gluon fusion in the presence of new physics in the
top-Higgs sector. Considering the full final state $pp \to b \bar b
\ell^+\ell^-$ ($\ell=e,\mu$), we discuss how new physics in the top-Higgs
sector that enhances the $ZZ$ component can leave footprints in the $HZ$ limit
setting. In passing we investigate the phenomenology of a class of new physics
interactions that can be genuinely studied in this process.

The fundamental importance of functional differential equations has been
recognized in many areas of mathematical physics, such as fluid dynamics (Hopf
characteristic functional equation), quantum field theory (Schwinger-Dyson
equations) and statistical physics (equations for generating functionals and
effective Fokker-Planck equations). However, no effective numerical method has
yet been developed to compute their solution. The purpose of this report is to
fill this gap, and provide a new perspective on the problem of numerical
approximation of nonlinear functionals and functional differential equations.

A correspondence of classical to quantum physics studied by Schr\"{o}\-dinger
and Ehrenfest applies without the necessity of technical conjecture that
classical observables are associated with Hermitian Hilbert space operators.
This correspondence provides appropriate nonrelativistic classical
interpretations to realizations of relativistic quantum physics that are
incompatible with the canonical formalism. Using this correspondence, Newtonian
mechanics for a $1/r$ potential provides approximations for the dynamics of
nonrelativistic classical particle states within unconstrained quantum field
theory (UQFT).

In elementary particle physics the philosophy of virtual particles is widely
used. We use this philosophy to obtain the famous inverse square law of
classical physics. We define a formal model without fields or forces, but with
virtual particle - information transmitter. This formal model admits very
simple (school level) interpretation with two classical particles and one
virtual. Then we prove (in a mathematically rigorous way) that the trajectories
in our model converge to standard Newtonian trajectories of classical physics.

In the light of contemporary discussions of inter and transdisciplinarity,
this paper approaches econophysics and sociophysics to seek a response to the
question -- whether these interdisciplinary fields could contribute to physics
and economics. Drawing upon the literature on history and philosophy of
science, the paper argues that the two way traffic between physics and
economics has a long history and this is likely to continue in the future.

Igniting cornstarch powder is a classic physics demonstration that showcases
the rapid conduction of heat for a material in which the surface area is
greater than the volume of its constituent particles. Including such a
demonstration in a physics "magic show" for the general public presents certain
challenges such as reproducibility and consistent crowd appeal. A simple but
effective design for widely scattering cornstarch dust over a flame breaches
these challenges and always results in consistently large, crowd-pleasing
fireballs; so much so that the resulting demonstration has been dubbed the
"cornstarch flamethrower." A small-scale version may also be used effectively
for classroom instruction.

These lecture notes (from the Second Autumn School in High Energy Physics and
Quantum Field Theory, Yerevan 2014) cover a number of topics related to
geometric quantization. Most of the material is presented from a physicist's
point of view. The original notes are posted at
\verb+http://theorphyslab-ysu.info/VW_ASW-2014/uploads/ArmeniaLectures.pdf+.
The have been revised with some additions and changes, although referencing is
still somewhat dated. These notes are posted here as they may be good
background material for some recent papers.

We find that the nonperturbative physics of the standard-model Higgs
Lagrangian provides a dark matter candidate, "dormant skyrmion in the standard
model", the same type of the skyrmion, a soliton, as in the hadron physics. It
is stabilized by another nonperturbative object in the standard model, the
dynamical gauge boson of the hidden local symmetry, which is also an analogue
of the rho meson.

Science has traditionally played an important role in sharing knowledge among
people. Particle Physics, with its large experiments, has shown that one not
only can share the knowledge among different cultures, but that one can also
work together to achieve this knowledge. The present article gives a few
examples where this has been possible among people that are sometimes in
conflict situations.

These notes are intended as an introduction to a study of applications of
noncommutative calculus to quantum statistical Physics. Centered on
noncommutative calculus we describe the physical concepts and mathematical
structures appearing in the analysis of large quantum systems, and their
consequences. These include the emergence of algebraic approach and the
necessity of employment of infinite dimensional structures. As an illustration,
a quantization of stochastic processes, new formalism for statistical
mechanics, quantum field theory and quantum correlations are discussed.

The search for the left-handed $W^{\pm}$ bosons, the proposed quanta of the
weak interaction, and the Higgs boson, which spontaneously breaks the symmetry
of unification of electromagnetic and weak interactions, has driven
elementary-particle physics research from the time that I entered college to
the present and has led to many unexpected and exciting discoveries which
revolutionized our view of subnuclear physics over that period. In this article
I describe how these searches and discoveries have intertwined with my own
career.

The possibility of using plasma wakefield acceleration to build a very high
energy electron-proton (VHEeP) collider at a centre-of-mass energy of 9 TeV was
presented at the DIS2015 workshop. In this talk, the physics case was further
developed and the idea has since been published as a journal paper. A brief
summary is here given along with some details of the technical aspects not
covered in the paper, which focused on the physics motivation. It is
demonstrated that an $ep$ collider with a centre-of-mass energy a factor of 30
above HERA has sensitivity to new physical phenomena.

After some personal recollectioms about Rudolf Haag and his thoughts which
led him to "Local Quantum Physics", the present work recalls his ideas about
scattering theory, the relation between local observables and localized fields
and his contributions to the physical aspects of modular operator theory which
paved the way for an intrisic understanding of quantum causal localization in
which fields "coordinatize" the local algebras. The paper ends with the
presentation of string-local fields whose construction and use in a new
renormalization theory for higher spin fields is part of an ongoing
reformulation of gauge theory in the conceptual setting of Haag's LQP.

The 2016 Physics Nobel Prize honors a variety of discoveries related to
topological phases and phase transitions. Here we sketch two exciting facets:
the groundbreaking works by John Kosterlitz and David Thouless on phase
transitions of infinite order, and by Duncan Haldane on the energy gaps in
quantum spin chains. These insights came as surprises in the 1970s and 1980s,
respectively, and they have both initiated new fields of research in
theoretical and experimental physics.

We give a survey of our joint ongoing work with Ali Chamseddine, Slava
Mukhanov and Walter van Suijlekom. We show how a problem purely motivated by
"how geometry emerges from the quantum formalism" gives rise to a slightly
noncommutative structure and a spectral model of gravity coupled with matter
which fits with experimental knowledge. This text will appear as a contribution
to the volume: "Foundations of Mathematics and Physics one century after
Hilbert". Editor: Joseph Kouneiher. Collection Mathematical Physics, Springer
2017

We study the measure theoretic properties of typical C 0 maps of the
interval. We prove that any ergodic measure is pseudo-physical, and conversely,
any pseudo-physical measure is in the closure of the ergodic measures, as well
as in the closure of the atomic measures. We show that the set of
pseudo-physical measures is meager in the space of all invariant measures.
Finally, we study the entropy function. We construct pseudo-physical measures
with infinite entropy. We also prove that, for each m $\ge$ 1, there exists
infinitely many pseudo-physical measures with entropy log m, and deduce that
the entropy function is neither upper semi-continuous nor lower
semi-continuous.

Is physics education research based on a representative sample of students?
To answer this question we skimmed physics education research papers from three
journals for the years 1970 - 2015 looking for the number of research subjects,
the course the subjects were enrolled in, and the institution where the
research was conducted. We then compared the demographics of our research
population to those of all students taking physics in the United States. Our
results suggest that research subjects as a whole are better prepared
mathematically and are less diverse than the overall physics student
population.

We review the flavor structure of the Standard Model and the ways in which
the flavor parameters are measured. This is an extended writeup of the TASI
2016 lectures on flavor physics. Earlier versions of these lectures were
presented at pre-SUSY 2015 and Cornell University's Physics 7661 course in
2010.

Standard lattice calculations in kaon physics are based on the evaluation of
matrix elements of local operators between two single-hadron states or a
single-hadron state and the vacuum. Recent progress in lattice QCD has gone
beyond these standard observables. I will review the status and prospects of
lattice kaon physics with an emphasis on non-leptonic $K\to\pi\pi$ decay and
long-distance processes including $K^0$-$\overline{K^0}$ mixing and rare kaon
decays.

In this talk I discuss the widespread impact of the top quark on phenomena in
elementary particle physics as codified through the Standard Model (SM), its
important role in motivating the possiblity of physics beyond the Standard
Model (BSM), and its use as a signal for detailed studies of the SM and
searches for BSM physics.

Quantum non-locality has been an extremely fruitful subject of research,
leading the scientific revolution towards quantum information science, in
particular to device-independent quantum information processing. We argue that
time is ripe to work on another basic problem in the foundations of quantum
physics, the quantum measurement problem, that should produce good physics both
in theoretical, mathematical, experimental and applied physics. We briefly
review how quantum non-locality contributed to physics (including some
outstanding open problems) and suggest ways in which questions around
Macroscopic Quantumness could equally contribute to all aspects of physics.

Cyber-physical technologies are prone to attacks, in addition to faults and
failures. The issue of protecting cyber-physical systems should be tackled by
jointly addressing security at both cyber and physical domains, in order to
promptly detect and mitigate cyber-physical threats. Towards this end, this
letter proposes a new architecture combining control-theoretic solutions
together with programmable networking techniques to jointly handle crucial
threats to cyber-physical systems. The architecture paves the way for new
interesting techniques, research directions, and challenges which we discuss in
our work.

In this paper I discuss the concept of time in physics. I consider the
thermal time hypothesis and I claim that thermal clocks and atomic clocks
measure different physical times, whereby thermal time and relativistic time
are not compatible with each other. This hypothesis opens the possibility of a
new foundation of the theory of physical time, and new perspectives in
theoretical and philosophical researches.

If new physics manifests itself in the existence of very weakly coupled
particles of MeV-GeV mass-scale, fixed-target experiments can be an excellent
instrument to discover it. In these proceedings, we review especially the
sensitivity of the NA62 experiment to this physics scenario.

We review the theoretical underpinning of the Higgs mechanism of electroweak
symmetry breaking and the experimental status of Higgs measurements from a
pedagogical perspective. The possibilities and motivations for new physics in
the symmetry breaking sector are discussed along with current measurements. A
focus is on the implications of measurements in the Higgs sector for
theoretical insights into extensions of the Standard Model. We also discuss of
future prospects for Higgs physics and new analysis techniques.

The completion of the Standard Model of particle physics by the discovery of
a light Higgs boson at the LHC in 2012 triggered the debate about the best way
forward to discover physics beyond the Standard Model. At the eve of the update
of the European Strategy of particle physics, this article summarises the
motivation and status of the different collider projects in particle physics at
the energy frontier. This article reflects the status as of December 2018 and
the reader is invited to follow closely updated information of the presented
projects.

An important prediction of the standard model is the universality of the
gauge interactions of the three generation of charged leptons. Violation of
this universality would be a clean evidence of new physics (NP) beyond the
standard model. In recent times anomalies in measurements of certain $B$ decays
indicate violation of lepton universality (LUV). I will discuss how one may
probe this LUV new physics via related decays and distributions. I will point
out that LUV new physics can often lead to lepton flavor violation (LFV) and I
will discuss some promising decays to look for LFV new physics.

Elementary particle physics is gradually implemented into science curricula
at high school level. However, common presentations on educational,
semi-technical or popular level contain or support severe misconceptions. We
discuss in particular the notion of `particle', the interaction between them
and the use of Feynman diagrams. In many cases the true novelty of particle
physics (i.e. quantum field theory) is largely ignored. We also suggest reasons
for this widespread distortions of particle physics in popular accounts.

I present a grand view of some of the main particle physics challenges from a
neutrino perspective. After a brief review of the current status of neutrino
physics, I illustrate the possible role neutrinos can play in the elucidation
of various puzzles in particle physics and cosmology, for which the Standard
Model offers no answer.

Quantum Physics and Logic is an annual conference that brings together
researchers working on mathematical foundations of quantum physics, quantum
computing, and related areas, with a focus on structural perspectives and the
use of logical tools, ordered algebraic and category-theoretic structures,
formal languages, semantical methods, and other computer science techniques
applied to the study of physical behaviour in general. Work that applies
structures and methods inspired by quantum theory to other fields (including
computer science) is also welcome.

The electric dipole moment (EDM) is an excellent probe of new physics beyond
the standard model of particle physics. The EDM of light nuclei is particularly
interesting due to the high sensitivity to the hadron level CP violation. In
this proceedings contribution, we investigate the mechanism of the generation
of the EDM for several light nuclei and the prospect for the discovery of new
physics.

It is clarified that Heisenberg quantization was proposed in empty space.
Based on established experiments, the generalized Heisenberg quantization in
physical space is obtained. Physical space quantization includes important new
physics: Proving that physical space is noncommutative space; Exploring the
existence of a non-zero minimal length scale, which leads to new space
structures and the existence of the space minimal finite volume; Finding a new
correlativity of the property of space with the motion status of the system:
space non-commutativity is determined by the momentum non-commutativity.

The Lindblad equation for a two-level system under an electric field is
analyzed by mapping to a linear equation with a non-Hermitian matrix.
Exceptional points of the matrix are found to be extensive; the second-order
ones are located on lines in a two-dimensional parameter space, while the
third-order one is at a point.

We present a method for building physical projector operators for multi-leg
helicity amplitudes. For any helicity configuration of the external particles,
we define a physical projector which singles out the corresponding helicity
amplitude. For processes with more than four external legs, these physical
projectors depend on significantly fewer tensor structures and exhibit a
remarkable simplicity compared with projector operators defined with
traditional approaches. As an example, we present analytic formulas for a
complete set of projectors for five-gluon scattering. These have been validated
by reproducing known results for five-gluon amplitudes up to one-loop.

We review current results on physics with photons at the LHC and discuss
realistic perspectives of photon physics at future colliders. In particular, we
focus on Standard Model (SM) measurements with photons at the upcoming
high-luminosity and a possible high-energy LHC as well as jet measurements at
an Electron-Ion Collider (EIC) to be constructed either at BNL or at JLAB and
their potential to constrain nuclear parton densities. We also discuss future
searches for physics beyond the SM with photons in the high-luminosity phase of
the LHC.

This contribution aims to give an overview of the historical context of
neutrino physics. I will present the strong social trends that shaped physics
and the way physicists worked, along the 20th century. First, we will see the
background of the birth of nuclear physics in the interwar period. Then, we
will examine the deep implications the Second World War had, to conclude with
the specificities of postwar years for nuclear and particle physics.

Do scientific theories limit human knowledge? In other words, are there
physical variables hidden by essence forever? We argue for negative answers and
illustrate our point on chaotic classical dynamical systems. We emphasize
parallels with quantum theory and conclude that the common real numbers are, de
facto, the hidden variables of classical physics. Consequently, real numbers
should not be considered as "physically real" and classical mechanics, like
quantum physics, is indeterministic.

In absence of any distinct evidence of new physics phenomena at the LHC, an
increasing number of experimental studies aim at probing anomalous effects with
an effective field theory (EFT) that represents a comprehensive approach for
interpretation of various experimental results. The processes with the
production of top quarks are sensitive to several classes of EFT operators
including the flavour-changing neutral currents (FCNC). The summary of the
latest CMS results based on the recent studies of the standard model processes
and searches for new physics effects involving top quarks are presented.

Physics associated with the Higgs field potential is rich and interesting and
deserves a concise summary for a broader audience to appreciate the beauty and
the challenges of this subject. We discuss the role of the Higgs potential in
particle physics, in particular in the spontaneous symmetry breaking and in the
mass generation using an example of a simple reflection symmetry, then continue
with the temperature and quantum corrections to the potential which lead us to
the naturalness problem and the vacuum stability.

The quantities of dimension one - known as the dimensionless quantities - are
widely used in physics. However, the debate about some dimensionless units is
still open. The paper brings new interrelated arguments that lead to the
conclusion to avoid physical dimensionless units, except one for the
mathematical multiplication identity element that should not be introduced into
a system of physical units. It brings the coherence to the International System
of Units (SI) and it will remove ambiguities rising from the conflict between
the mathematical properties and the physical conventions.

In this paper, we teach a machine to discover the laws of physics from video
streams. We assume no prior knowledge of physics, beyond a temporal stream of
bounding boxes. The problem is very difficult because a machine must learn not
only a governing equation (e.g. projectile motion) but also the existence of
governing parameters (e.g. velocities). We evaluate our ability to discover
physical laws on videos of elementary physical phenomena, such as projectile
motion or circular motion. These elementary tasks have textbook governing
equations and enable ground truth verification of our approach.

A concise review of precision measurements in the Higgs sector of the
Standard Model (SM) of particle physics is given using ATLAS and CMS data. The
results are based on LHC Run-2 data, taken between 2015 and 2018. Impressive
progress has been made since the discovery of the Higgs boson in 2012 for
measuring all major production and decay modes. Good agreement with the SM
predictions was observed in all measurements.

Jordan algebras were first introduced in an effort to restructure quantum
mechanics purely in terms of physical observables. In this paper we explain
why, if one attempts to reformulate the internal structure of the standard
model of particle physics geometrically, one arrives naturally at a discrete
internal geometry that is coordinatized by a Jordan algebra.

The notion of superconnection devised by Quillen in 1985 and used in
gauge-Higgs field theory in the 1990's is applied to the spin factors
(finite-dimensional euclidean Jordan algebras) recently considered as
representing the finite quantum geometry of one generation of fermions in the
Standard Model of particle physics.

A class of models intended to be as minimal and structureless as possible is
introduced. Even in cases with simple rules, rich and complex behavior is found
to emerge, and striking correspondences to some important core known features
of fundamental physics are seen, suggesting the possibility that the models may
provide a new approach to finding a fundamental theory of physics.

Chirality, or handedness, is a topic that is common in biology and chemistry,
yet is rarely discussed in physics courses. We provide a way of introducing the
topic in classical physics, and demonstrate the merits of its inclusion - such
as a simple way to visually introduce the concept of symmetries in physical law
- along with giving some simple proofs using only basic matrix operations,
thereby avoiding the full formalism of the three-dimensional point group.

New insights into transport properties of nanostructures with a linear
dispersion along one direction and a quadratic dispersion along another are
obtained by analysing their spectral stability properties under small
perturbations. Physically relevant sufficient and necessary conditions to
guarantee the existence of discrete eigenvalues are derived under rather
general assumptions on external fields. One of the most interesting features of
the analysis is the evident spectral instability of the systems in the weakly
coupled regime. The rigorous theoretical results are illustrated by numerical
experiments and predictions for physical experiments are made.

Quantum Rabi model has been exactly solved by employing the
parameter-dependent unitary transformation method in both the occupation number
representation and the Bargmann space. The analytical expressions for the
complete energy spectrum consisting of two double-fold degenerate sub-energy
spectra are presented in the whole range of all the physical parameters. Each
energy level is determined by a parameter in the unitary transformation, which
obeys a highly nonlinear equation. The corresponding eigenfunction is a
convergent infinite series in terms of the physical parameters. Due to the
level crossings between the neighboring eigenstates at certain physical
parameter values, such the degeneracies could lead to novel physical phenomena
in the two-level system with the light-matter interaction.

The key difference between math as math and math in science is that in
science we blend our physical knowledge with our knowledge of math. This
blending changes the way we put meaning to math and even to the way we
interpret mathematical equations. Learning to think about physics with math
instead of just calculating involves a number of general scientific thinking
skills that are often taken for granted (and rarely taught) in physics classes.
In this paper, I give an overview of my analysis of these additional skills. I
propose specific tools for helping students develop these skills in subsequent
papers.

A central claim in quantum cryptography is that secrecy can be proved
rigorously, based on the assumption that the relevant information-processing
systems obey the laws of quantum physics. This claim has recently been
challenged by Bernstein (arXiv:1803.04520). He argues that the laws of physics
may also entail an unavoidable leakage of any classical information encoded in
physical carriers. The security claim of quantum key distribution would then be
vacuous, as the computation of the final secret key would leak its value.
However, as we explain in this short note, Bernstein's reasoning is based on a
too "classical" understanding of physics. It follows from known theorems about
fault-tolerant quantum computation that quantum physics avoids his conclusion.

Learning to use math in science is a non-trivial task. It involves many
different skills (not usually taught in a math class) that help blend physical
knowledge with mathematical symbology. One of these is the idea of
quantification: that physical quantities can be assigned specific numbers. A
second is to develop an intuition for scale. One way to help students develop
these skills is to teach estimation: the ability to consider a physical
situation and put reasonable approximate numbers to it

Singularity theorems constitute a major milestone of relativity. They
generated a panoply of fertile lines of research with dazzling physical
consequences.
  (Los teoremas de singularidades constituyen uno de los mayores hitos de la
relatividad. Generaron una panoplia de f\'ertiles l\'ineas de investigaci\'on
con consecuencias f\'isicas deslumbrantes).

According to the "Hilbert Space Fundamentalism" Thesis, all features of a
physical system, including the 3D-space, a preferred basis, and factorization
into subsystems, uniquely emerge from the state vector and the Hamiltonian
alone. I give a simplified account of the proof from arXiv:2102.08620 showing
that such emerging structures cannot be both unique and physically relevant.

We formulate both Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) sampling algorithms and
basic statistical physics in terms of elementary symmetries. This perspective
on sampling yields derivations of well-known MCMC algorithms and a new parallel
algorithm that appears to converge more quickly than current state of the art
methods. The symmetry perspective also yields a parsimonious framework for
statistical physics and a practical approach to constructing meaningful notions
of effective temperature and energy directly from time series data. We apply
these latter ideas to Anosov systems.

In this article we argue that in quantum mechanics, and in opposition to
classical physics, it is impossible to say that an isolated quantum system
"owns" a physical property. Some properties of the system, its mass for
example, belong to it in a sense close to that of classical physics; but most
often a property must be attributed to the system within a context. We give
simple motivations for adopting this point of view, and show that it clarifies
many issues in quantum physics.

This volume contains the proceedings of the 17th International Conference on
Quantum Physics and Logic (QPL 2020), which was held June 2-6, 2020. Quantum
Physics and Logic is an annual conference that brings together researchers
working on mathematical foundations of quantum physics, quantum computing, and
related areas, with a focus on structural perspectives and the use of logical
tools, ordered algebraic and category-theoretic structures, formal languages,
semantical methods, and other computer science techniques applied to the study
of physical behavior in general. Work that applies structures and methods
inspired by quantum theory to other fields (including computer science) is also
welcome.

We are used to the fact that most if not all physical theories are based on
the set of real numbers (or another associative division algebra). These all
have a cardinality larger than that of the natural numbers, i.e. form a
continuum. It is often asked, whether there really is a continuum in the
physical world, or whether a future physical theory could work with just
countable infinities. The latter could for example be compatible with a
quantized space-time. In this paper we formulate a simple model of the brain
and show that within the presented natural assumptions, the continuum has to
exist for at least some physical quantities.

The relational interpretation (or RQM, for Relational Quantum Mechanics)
solves the measurement problem by considering an ontology of sparse relative
events, or "facts". Facts are realized in interactions between any two physical
systems and are relative to these systems. RQM's technical core is the
realisation that quantum transition amplitudes determine physical probabilities
only when their arguments are facts relative to the same system. The relativity
of facts can be neglected in the approximation where decoherence hides
interference, thus making facts approximately stable.

This lecture note adresses the correspondence between spectral flows, often
associated to unidirectional modes, and Chern numbers associated to degeneracy
points. The notions of topological indices (Chern numbers, analytical indices)
are introduced for non specialists with a wave physics or condensed matter
background. The correspondence is detailed with several examples, including the
Dirac equations in two dimensions, Weyl fermions in three dimensions, the
shallow water model and other generalizations.

We present the results of the physics reach of a multi-TeV muon collider for
popular models of physics beyond the Standard Model. We include also details
about a model predicting the scalar dark matter in the spectrum. Finally we
present some preliminary results about the Effective Vector Approximation and
its implementation in the Monte Carlo generator {\sc MadGraph5\_aMC@NLO}.

With the absence of the direct detection of new physics and the large data
set collected at the LHC, the search for indirect effects in precision
measurements became popular. Effective field theories enable to interpret these
effects that originate from physics manifested at currently unreachable energy
scales in a model independent framework. In this report, an overview of new
analyses performed by the ATLAS and CMS Collaborations in the field of top
quark physics is given.

This paper attempts to classify various blinding strategies used in particle
physics. It argues that the blinding technique is not used consistently
throughout searches for new physics. More importantly, the blinding technique,
in its traditional sense, cannot be applicable for many current and future
searches when statistical precision of data significantly exceeds the current
level of our understanding of Standard Model (SM) backgrounds.

In this paper, we propose to predict the physics parameters of real fabrics
and garments by learning their physics similarities between simulated fabrics
via a Physics Similarity Network (PhySNet). For this, we estimate wind speeds
generated by an electric fan and the area weight to predict bending stiffness
of simulated and real fabrics and garments. We found that PhySNet coupled with
a Bayesian optimiser can predict physics parameters and improve the
state-of-art by 34%for real fabrics and 68% for real garments.

In a gauge theory, the gauge invariant Hilbert space is unchanged by the
coupling to arbitrary local operators. In the presence of Wilson loops, though,
the physical Hilbert space must be enlarged by adding test electric charges
along the loop. I discuss how at nonzero temperature Polyakov loops are
naturally related to the propagator of a test charge. 't Hooft loops represent
the propagation of a test magnetic charge, and so do not alter the physical
Hilbert space.

The Casimir effect is one of the most direct manifestations of the existence
of the vacuum quantum fluctuations, discovered by H. B Casimir in 1948. On the
other hand, Lorentz invariance is one of the main and basic concepts in special
relativity, which states that, the laws of physics are invariant under Lorentz
transformation. In this work, we calculate the corrections imposed by LIV on
Casimir effect (force). This may provide a direct probe to test LIV in nature.

We reiterate that there is significant complementarity between low-energy
experiments and high-energy colliders in exploring new physics associated with
neutrino properties and their mass generation mechanisms. Signals of the new
physics in the two energy regimes may be correlated with each other from the
same underlying dynamics. We demonstrate the complementary nature by presenting
the physics reaches for the Seesaw models of Type I, II and III, and for
general neutrino interactions in an effective field theory framework, and in a
$Z'$ model.

We review recent developments and outstanding questions regarding connecting
the top-down UV complete physical framework of string theory with the observed
physics of the Standard Model and beyond the Standard Model physics,
emphasizing the global nonperturbative framework of F-theory and general
lessons from UV physics. This paper, prepared for the TF01 conveners of the
Snowmass 2022 process, provides a brief synopsis of this important area,
focusing on ongoing developments and opportunities.

This document summarizes our best knowledge of the ongoing High Energy
Physics activities in Africa. The information was primarily extracted from the
first ASFAP Particle Physics day organised on November 2021 and on our working
group talk presented at ACP 2021 conference on March 2022.

Heuristic arguments and order of magnitude estimates for partial differential
equations highlight essential features of the physics they describe. We present
order of magnitude estimates, and their limitations, for the three classic
second order PDEs of mathematical physics (wave, heat, and Laplace equations),
for first order transport equations, and for two non-linear wave equations. It
is beneficial to expose the beginning student to these considerations before
jumping into more rigorous mathematics. Yet these simple arguments are missing
from physics textbooks.

We analyze the current trends in higher education and discuss its impact on
physics enrollment in US institutions. The pandemic, lockdowns, unemployment,
and healthcare problems have led to unique social and economic conditions.
These conditions have modified the latest trends in education. COVID-19 has had
great impact on the academic culture due to online teaching and learning
methods. We identify some of the key factors including economic problems,
changes in job market, modifications in family obligations, physical and mental
health conditions, and overall insecurity and uncertainty in life. These key
factors are causing a shift in educational preferences. A few recommendations
are made to get out of the current dilemma. We use all the data collected by
the American Physical Society statistics department [1].

The aim of this thesis is to bridge the gap between the world of physics
research and secondary education on contemporary quantum physics. We fostered
the creation of a generative learning environment formed by quantum physics
researchers, high school physics teachers and student. The result was the
development of an teaching approach to the core ideas of quantum physics
(quantum states, superposition and measurement) that has been used to design
and implement teaching-learning activities in regular high school lessons.

The discovery of the Higgs boson, ten years ago, was a milestone that opened
the door to the study of a new sector of fundamental physical interactions. We
review the role of the Higgs field in the Standard Model of particle physics
and explain its impact on the world around us. We summarize the insights into
Higgs physics revealed so far by ten years of work, discuss what remains to be
determined, and outline potential connections of the Higgs sector with unsolved
mysteries of particle physics.

This manuscript is devoted to the description of the proposed Future Circular
Collider (FCC) project and its physics program focused on measurements
involving heavy quarks. It summarizes the report submitted to the US 2021
Snowmass Process and European Strategy on Particle Physics. The proposed
electron-positron collider based on established technologies will provide high
instantaneous luminosities at center-of-mass energies from the Z resonance
through the ZH and WW and up to the $t\bar{t}$ threshold. This will allow a
very rich set of fundamental measurements as well as the study of heavy-flavor
and tau physics in ultra-rare decays beyond the LHC reach.

In this note we show how to construct a number of nonconvex quadratic
inequalities for a variety of physics equations appearing in physical design
problems. These nonconvex quadratic inequalities can then be used to construct
bounds on physical design problems where the objective is a quadratic or a
ratio of quadratics. We show that the quadratic inequalities and the original
physics equations are equivalent under a technical condition that holds in many
practical cases which is easy to computationally (and, in some cases, manually)
verify.

We argue that most advances in science and technology during the past and the
present centuries rely on modern physics concepts developed in the early $20$th
century. The reliance is so profound that any improvement of literacy of
science and technology falters in the absence of those concepts in physics
education. Despite this important role, there are some remarks in literature
concerning that modern topics have gone unnoticed in physics textbooks
\cite{cht}. We discuss confirmation of this claim and also argue that physics
education without reference to the difficulties of classical concepts and the
need for paradigm change can lead to serious misconceptions and gives an
incorrect image of science.

Rapid ongoing progress in quantum information science makes this an apt time
for a Solvay Conference focused on The Physics of Quantum Information. Here I
review four intertwined themes encompassed by this topic: Quantum computer
science, quantum hardware, quantum matter, and quantum gravity. Though the time
scale for broad practical impact of quantum computation is still uncertain, in
the near future we can expect noteworthy progress toward scalable
fault-tolerant quantum computing, and discoveries enabled by programmable
quantum simulators. In the longer term, controlling highly complex quantum
matter will open the door to profound scientific advances and powerful new
technologies.

We implement the $\chi^2$ fit for $R(K^{(*)})$ with possible tree-level new
physics in a model-independent parametrization. Relevant Wilson coefficients
are decomposed into the new physics scale, its power, and the fermionic
couplings. Constraints from the branching ratio of $B_s\to\mu^+\mu^-$ can be
naturally incorporated with the scheme. For a reasonable set of the parameter
ranges it is found that the new physics is less than $\sim 5~{\rm TeV}$. Some
new physics models including the leptoquark, $Z'$, etc. can be embraced within
our framework. We give comments on new LHCb data which are close to the
standard model predictions.

Symmetry distills the simplicity of natural laws from the complexity of
physical phenomena. The symmetry principle is of vital importance in various
aspects of modern physics, including analyzing atomic spectra, determining
fundamental interactions in the Standard Model, and unifying physics at
different energy scales. In this chapter, novel applications of this principle
are reviewed in condensed matter physics and cold atom physics for exploring
new states of matter.

The ultraviolet and infrared finiteness of a parity-even massless planar
quantum electrodynamics mimics the scale invariance in graphene.

The recently developed concept of "entropic defect" is important for
understanding the foundations of thermodynamics in space plasma physics, and
more generally, for systems with physical correlations among their particles.
Using this concept, this paper derives the basic formulation of the
distribution function of velocities (or kinetic energies) in space plasma
particle populations. Earlier analyses have shown how the formulation of kappa
distributions is interwoven with the presence of correlations among the
particles' velocities. This paper shows, for the first time, that the reverse
is true: the thermodynamics of particles' physical correlations are consistent
only with the existence of kappa distributions.

What follows is a broad-brush overview of the recent synergistic interactions
between mathematics and theoretical physics of quantum field theory and string
theory. The discussion is forward-looking, suggesting potentially useful and
fruitful directions and problems, some old, some new, for further development
of the subject. This paper is a much extended version of the Snowmass
whitepaper on physical mathematics [1].

Engaging with physical and material properties through empirical observation
is a fundamental part of undergraduate physics and engineering education.
Several works have proposed experiments to determine thermal physical constants
of materials such as finding the coefficient of linear expansion. As Dajbych
and Polak et al. have shown, methods for experimentally verifying physical
constants can be done by measuring the frequency of a plucked high-carbon steel
wire on a guitar. Building upon our previous work, we have extended our method
to verify the coefficient of linear thermal expansion through an accessible
procedure directed at introductory physics education.

A very brief overview is presented on some of the current most active areas
of research in formal aspects of High Energy Physics and Cosmology. Including
the recent breakthrough on the black hole information paradox, developments on
amplitudes, the bootstrap and swampland programmes as well as progress towards
realistic UV complete models of particle physics and cosmology. Perspectives on
future contact with observations are discussed, emphasising the long term
prospect for ultra high frequency gravitational waves to test early universe
physics beyond the Standard Model.

This book chapter presents an overview of the historical experimental and
theoretical developments in neutrino physics and astrophysics and also the
physical properties of neutrinos, as well as the physical processes involving
neutrinos. It also discusses the role of neutrinos in astrophysics and
cosmology. Correction to tex file made.

Fusion-graded plasmas are one of the physically complex systems, resulting in
continuous establishment of plasma theories for unclarified physical phenomena
in order to thoroughly control nuclear fusion reactors. Deep learning has drawn
vast attention to this field of controlled fusion plasma to link physical
phenomena with control-relevant parameters without a deepened understanding
about plasma theories. Albeit, quantifying the uncertainty of deep learning
models has been constantly requested due to their fundamental shortage of
physical understanding. Thus, a concept of a reliable deep learning model to be
able to present their probability distributions is raised as well as a method
to inculcate physical theories in the model is also concerned.

We study the motion of charge carriers in curved Dirac materials, in the
presence of a local Fermi velocity. An explicit parameterization of the latter
emerging quantity for a nanoscroll cylindrical geometry is also provided,
together with a discussion of related physical effects and observable
properties.

Wannier functions have widespread utility in condensed matter physics and
beyond. Topological physics, on the other hand, has largely involved the
related notion of compactly-supported Wannier-type functions, which arise
naturally in flat bands. In this paper, we establish a connection between these
two notions, by finding the necessary and sufficient conditions under which
compact Wannier functions exist in one dimension. We present an exhaustive
construction of models with compact Wannier functions and show that the Wannier
functions are unique, and in general, distinct from the corresponding
maximally-localized Wannier functions.

We briefly recount the long friendship that developed between Ludwig and us
(Moshe Flato and I), since we first met at ICM 1966 in Moscow. That friendship
extended to his school and family, and persists to this day. Its strong
personal impact and main scientific components are sketched, including
reflexions on what mathematical physics is (or should be).

A new physics program has been initiated as part of the ongoing LHC physics
run in the far-forward region, where dedicated FASER and SND@LHC experiments
are currently taking data. We discuss the possible discovery prospects of this
program in the search for signatures of beyond the Standard Model physics. We
focus on both the present period and the proposed future Forward Physics
Facility (FPF) that will operate in the high luminosity LHC era.

Here we present an overview on the various works, in which many collaborators
have contributed, regarding the interesting dipole of noncommutativity and
physics. In brief, we present the features that noncommutativity triggers both
in the fields of gravity and particle physics, from a matrix-realized
perspective, with the notion of noncommutative gauge theories to play the most
central role in the whole picture. Also, under the framework of
noncommutativity, we examine the possibility of unifying the two fields
(gravity-particle physics) in a single configuration.

Catalysts open up new reaction pathways which can speed up chemical reactions
while not consuming the catalyst. A similar phenomenon has been discovered in
quantum information science, where physical transformations become possible by
utilizing a (quantum) degree of freedom that remains unchanged throughout the
process. In this review, we present a comprehensive overview of the concept of
catalysis in quantum information science and discuss its applications in
various physical contexts.

This volume contains the proceedings of the 20th International Conference on
Quantum Physics and Logic (QPL 2023). The aim of the QPL conference series is
to bring together academic and industry researchers working on mathematical
foundations of quantum computation, quantum physics, and related areas. The
main focus is on the use of algebraic and categorical structures, formal
languages, type systems, semantic methods, as well as other mathematical and
computer scientific techniques applicable to the study of physical systems,
physical processes, and their composition.

Paradoxical decision-making behaviours such as preference reversal often
arise from imprecise or noisy human preferences. Harnessing the physical
principle of magnetisation reversal in ferromagnetic nanostructures, we
developed a model that closely reflects human decision-making dynamics. Tested
against a spectrum of psychological data, our model adeptly captures the
complexities inherent in individual choices. This blend of physics and
psychology paves the way for fresh perspectives on understanding the
imprecision of human decision-making processes, extending the reach of the
current classical and quantum physical models of human behaviour and
decision-making.

We comment on the paper ``Numerical study of the SWKB condition of novel
classes of exactly solvable systems'' [Y. Nasuda and N. Sawado, Mod. Phys.
Lett. A 36, 2150025 (2021)]. We show that it misrepresents our prior work [J.
Bougie, A. Gangopadhyaya and C. Rasinariu, J. Phys. A: Math. Theor. 51, 375202
(2018)], and clarify this misunderstanding.

In this brief contribution I will highlight some directions where the
developments in the frontier of (quantum) metrology may be key for fundamental
high energy physics (HEP). I will focus on the detection of dark matter and
gravitational waves, and introduce ideas from atomic clocks and magnetometers,
large atomic interferometers and detection of small fields in electromagnetic
cavities. Far from being comprehensive, this contribution is an invitation to
everyone in the HEP and quantum technologies communities to explore this
fascinating topic.

This essay offers a meta-level analysis in the sociology and history of
physics in the context of the "Arrow of Time" or so-called "Two Times" problem.
In effect, it argues that the two topics are intertwined, and it is only by
coming to grips with the sociological aspects, involving adherence to certain
metaphysical, epistemological and methodological beliefs and practices, that
real progress can be made in the physics.

This PhD thesis deals with a number of different problems in mathematical
physics with the common thread that they have probabilistic aspects. The
problems all stem from mathematical studies of lattice systems in statistical
and quantum physics; however beyond that, the selection of the concrete
problems is to a certain extent arbitrary. This thesis consists of an
introduction and seven papers.

We discuss the development of Kondo physics from the resolution of the
resistance minimum by J. Kondo to recent developments in physics. The Kondo
effect has given a great impact to all areas of physics. This reminds us that
physics is one unified science. Kondo's pioneering work has led major
developments in physics. We show brief history of the Kondo effect and discuss
the Kondo effect from several points of view that appeared to be important
through conversations with Prof. J. Kondo.

In this review, we have reached from the most basic definitions in the theory
of groups, group structures, etc. to representation theory and irreducible
representations of the Poincar'e group. Also, we tried to get a more
comprehensible understanding of group theory by presenting examples from the
nature around us to examples in mathematics and physics and using them to
examine more important groups in physics such as the Lorentz group and
Poincar'e group and representations It is achieved in the physical fields that
are used in the quantum field theory.

The Ce$^+$BAF project at the Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator Facility
intends to develop over the coming years a high-duty cycle, high intensity, and
high polarization positron beam to serve a unique Nuclear Physics experimental
program. It generically comprises the study of the effects of the two- and
multi-photon exchange mechanisms, the investigation of the nuclear structure at
the nucleonic and partonic scales, and tests of the standard model of particle
physics and interactions. This proceedings illustrates this physics program
through specific examples and presents the Ce$^+$BAF positron injector concept.

CP violation in B decays provides a powerful tool to probe physics from
beyond the Standard Model. A theoretical overview of recent developments of
benchmark channels is given, ranging from non-leptonic to rare leptonic and
semileptonic modes, opening up exciting perspectives for the future
high-precision era of flavour physics and the pursuit of New Physics.

We present a simple and general way to accurately describe long-range
interactions between atoms and molecules through combining neural networks with
physical models. Demonstrations on the H$_3$, Li$_3$ and 2KRb systems
illustrate the exceptional extrapolation capabilities of the trained model,
supported by underlying physical models. More importantly, the model exhibits
high accuracy at energy scales below a few hundred millikelvin, where the
reliability of $ab~initio$ methods diminishes.

We propose a theory that preserves spin-summed scattering and decay rates at
tree level while affecting particle spins. This is achieved by breaking the
Lorentz group in a non-local way that tries avoiding stringent constraints, for
example leaving unbroken the maximal sub-group SIM(2). As a phenomenological
application, this new physics can alter the spins of top-antitop pairs (and
consequently their entanglement) produced in $pp$ collisions without impacting
their rates. Some observables affected by loops involving top quarks with
modified entanglement receive corrections.

Neural networks (NNs) accelerate simulations of quantum dissipative dynamics.
Ensuring that these simulations adhere to fundamental physical laws is crucial,
but has been largely ignored in the state-of-the-art NN approaches. We show
that this may lead to implausible results measured by violation of the trace
conservation. To recover the correct physical behavior, we develop
physics-informed NNs that mitigate the violations to a good extend. Beyond
that, we introduce an approach enforcing the perfect trace conservation by
design.

Using a criterion proposed by Salpeter and standard solid-state physics,we
have determined conditions for the occurence of the plasma-solid
transition.Possible astrophysical applications are discussed.

This is an intorduction to some of the basic methods and results of dense
matter physics.It is aimed at readers interested in astrophysical and physical
applications.

Two variable speed of light models and their physical consequences are
investigated.

Selected topics in Astroparticle Physics including the CMB, dark matter, BBN,
and the variations of fundamental couplings are discussed.

A brief summary of the physics of low-dimensional quantum systems is given.
The material should be accessible to advanced physics undergraduate students.
References to recent review articles and books are provided when possible.

The Comment of Openov (PRL 93, 158901 (2004)) on my Physical Review Letter
(PRL 92, 120405 (2004)) does not affect the universality of the decoherence
mechanism described in the Letter.

The Euler-Lagrange equations for some class of gravitational actions are
calculated by means of Palatini principle. Polynomial structures with Einstein
metrics appear among extremals of this variational problem.

I give an overview of the motivations for gravitational-wave research,
concentrating on the aspects related to ``fundamental'' physics.

I discuss the prospects for a fixed target physics program at the AGS in the
RHIC era.

The motivation for possible future long baseline neutrino experiments is
discussed. The proposed experiments as well as their physics potential is
reviewed.

A summary of the W-boson properties measured by the four LEP collaborations
is presented here. These properties are updated to take into account the most
recent results presented at the ICHEP98 conference.

An overview is given of the neutrino physics potential of future muon storage
rings that use muon collider technology to produce, accelerate and store large
currents of muons.

An overview is given of the neutrino physics potential of future muon storage
rings that use muon collider technology to produce, accelerate and store large
currents of muons.

The past year has seen a number of important developments in hard
photoproduction physics at the HERA Collider. These are surveyed.

New physics results from the Super-Kamiokande experiment in 2000 are
presented.

Conference summary presentation given at HCP2002, Karlsruhe, Germany, Sep
29-Oct 4, 2002.

Selected topics showcasing the exploration for new physics using colliders;
presented at TASI 2001.

A short summary is made of several searches for new physics performed at the
highest LEP2 energies.

Future Experiments at LHC will have the opportunity to pursue an extensive
program on B Physics and CP violation. The expected performance are presented
here.

An optimization of the CERN-SPL beam line has been performed which leads to
better sensitivities to the $\theta\_{13}$ mixing angle and to the
$\delta\_{CP}$ violating phase than those advocated considering baseline
scenario.

The physics potential of a Beta Beam fired from CERN to a 440 kton water
Cerenkov detector at a distance of 130 Km is computed.

Results on QCD studies from the H1 and ZEUS Collaborations at the ep collider
HERA are presented and their impact on LHC physics discussed.

I review the ongoing attempts to define chiral gauge theories using the
lattice regularization.

A general review is presented on the problem of non perturbative computation
of the $K\to\pi\pi$ transition amplitude.

Some problems related to Gribov copies in lattice gauge-fixing and their
possible solution are discussed.

Some general considerations on the problem of non-perturbative definition of
Chiral Gauge Theories are presented.

This write-up starts by introducing lattice chirality to people possessing a
fairly modern mathematical background, but little prior knowledge about modern
physics. I then proceed to present two new and speculative ideas.

The Tau-Charm Factory combines the optimum conditions to perform a
high-precision investigation of the $\tau$ and $\nu_\tau$ leptons, the $c$
quark, and light-quark, glueball and hybrid spectroscopy. An overview of the
broad physics program that this facility will address is presented.

I briefly review standard top quark physics at hadron colliders and summarize
the contributions to this conference. The possibility of new mechanisms for
$t\bar{t}$ production are also discussed.

By applying the Ward identity found by Weinberg two new relations of the
amplitude of $a_{1}\rightarrow\rho\pi$ with other physical quantities have been
found.

A prescription is presented for the interpretation of the coefficients in an
effective lagrangian in terms of physical mass scales.

The present status of four-fermion calculations and event generators for LEP2
physics is reviewed. Perspectives for future improvements are given.

A summary is presented of deep inelastic physics results obtained by the H1
collaboration during its first three years of experimentation at the
electron-proton collider HERA.

We discuss the prospects to observe effects of transverse polarization and
spin-spin correlations of top quark pairs produced at hadron colliders.

I review recent theoretical work on top-quark physics within the standard
model, beyond the standard model, and at the Planck scale.

A brief review of muon-collider $s$-channel Higgs physics in the Standard
Model and its minimal supersymmetric extension is presented.

We review the physics to be investigated at LHC. We also describe the main
parameters of CMS and ATLAS detectors.

Implication of the modified Gottfried sum rule is discussed by focusing its
theoretical bases, the range of validity, and physical interpretation.

Extended version of an article on top-quark physics, to appear in the May
1997 issue of Physics Today.

The physics prospects of the high energy Photon Linear Collider are reviewed,
emphasizing its potential to study the symmetry breaking sector, including
Higgs searches and precision anomalous W couplings measurements.

I explain current theoretical ideas on higher-twist (hadronization)
corrections to physical observables in QCD.

A review of Heavy Quark Effective Theory and Non Relativistic Quantum
Chromondynamics is given. Some applications are discussed.

The quest for the physics underlying the breaking of the electroweak symmetry
and the generation of mass is surveyed.

It is argued that Centauro events observed in cosmic ray experiments may be
characteristic of only pp and not p(bar)p interactions.

We present some general considerations on possible experimental tests of
Bell's locality in the neutral kaon system, and comment on the recent
literature on the topic.

We present a brief overview of rare K decays, emphasizing the different role
of Standard Model and possible New Physics contributions in various channels.

Recent developments in our understanding of neutrino masses and their
implications for physics beyond the standard model are reviewed.

In relation with experiments on correlated kaons at phi-factories, it is
shown that the request of complete positivity is necessary in any physically
consistent description of neutral kaons as open quantum systems.

I review the most important objectives of the physics program of a
next-generation e+e- linear collider. (Introductory theory lecture presented at
the 1999 International Workshop on Linear Colliders, Sitges, Barcelona, Spain.)

We review some recent results and open problems on four fermion physics at
LEP2 and beyond

Recent results from H1 and ZEUS on heavy flavour production at HERA are
reviewed

I sketch some pressing questions in several active areas of particle physics
and outline the challenges they present for the design and operation of
detectors.

I discuss two aspects of the electroweak interactions: the status of the
precision measurement of the electroweak parameters and their impact on the
Higgs search at future colliders.

Lectures given at the International School of Subnuclear Physics: 37th
Course: Basics and Highlights of Fundamental Physics, Erice, Italy, 29 Aug - 7
Sep 1999.

Supersymmetry phenomenology is an important component of particle physics
today. I provide a definition of supersymmetry phenomenology, outline the scope
of its activity, and argue its legitimacy. This essay derives from a
presentation given at the 2000 SLAC Summer Institute.

This postscriptum to the theory of jet definition [hep-ph/9901444] summarizes
the points which did not find their way into the main text.

I review the most recent progresses in the calculation of four-fermion
processes in electron-positron collisions

We discuss the physics case for an electron--nucleus collider at RHIC.

This talk reviews recent progress in formulating the dynamics of Kaon
Physics, within the framework of the 1/Nc-expansion in QCD.

We give a short overview of recent developments in understanding of the
deeply virtual Compton scattering on the proton target.

A review is presented of the different theoretical models proposed to
approach consistently the interplay between soft and hard physics, that can now
be studied experimentally at HERA for the first time.

Introduction, Perspective - since particle physics beyond the SM is presently
in an incoherent state, with lots of static, a long introduction is needed,
including some history of the supersymmetry revolutions, physics not described
by the SM, indirect evidence for low energy supersymmetry and how flavor
physics should be approached. Derive the supersymmetric Lagrangian - the
superpotential W. Soft supersymmetry breaking - underlying physics - the
general soft-breaking Lagrangian - the MSSM. The \mu opportunity - R-parity
conservation. Count of parameters - constraints - measuring the parameters.
Connecting the weak and unification scale. Derivation of the Higgs mechanism -
in what sense does supersymmetry explain the Higgs physics.
  The Higgs spectrum - \tan\beta, Yukawa couplings, constraints. LEP Higgs
physics - Tevatron Higgs physics can confirm the Higgs mechanism and coupling
proportional to mass - measurements in the Higgs sector. gluino, Neutralino,
Chargino - cannot in general measure \tan\beta at hadron colliders. Effects of
soft phases - all observables, not only CPV ones, g-2, EDMs, gluino phase, LSP
CDM, possible connections to stringy physics. Phase structure of simple D-brane
models. Tevatron superpartner searches, signatures. Extensions of the MSSM. The
importance of low scale supersymmetry is not only that we learn of another
profound aspect of our world, but also to provide a window to Planck scale
physics, in order to connect string theory and our world.

I briefly review the recent status of research on physics potential of
neutrino factories with emphasis on measurements of the CP phase.

Developments in precision electroweak physics in the two years since the
symposium are briefly summarized.

New developments in physics associated with parity-violating interactions are
discussed in this PAVI 2002 workshop summary.

Some topics which can be easily explained to undergraduate students are
presented, with elementary derivations. For a more systematic treatment of
heavy-quark physics, see the textbook by Manohar and Wise.

Withdrawn by arXiv administration because the text and equations were
plagiarized from chapter 11 of the BaBar Physics Book
http://www.slac.stanford.edu/pubs/slacreports/slac-r-504.html
  See also hep-ph/0304045

Withdrawn by arXiv administration because the text and equations were
plagiarized from chapter 7 of the BaBar Physics Book
http://www.slac.stanford.edu/pubs/slacreports/slac-r-504.html
  See also hep-ph/0304045

Withdrawn by arXiv administration because the text and equations were
plagiarized from chapter 11 of the BaBar Physics Book
http://www.slac.stanford.edu/pubs/slacreports/slac-r-504.html
  See also hep-ph/0304045

Is there any room for new physics in the muon g-2 problem?

A short tour of supersymmetric dark matter and its connection to collider
physics.

We introduce a probabilistic measure of naturalness (naturalness level) to
fix naturalness bounds quantitatively. It is applied to the anomalous magnetic
moments and the electric dipole moments due to new physics.

We briefly review some of the recent developments in QCD spin physics.

Recent results obtained within ECFA/DESY and ECFA Study by the Higgs and
gamma gamma /e gamma physics working groups are presented.

Notes of five lectures given at the 2003 European School of High-Energy
Physics, Tsakhkadzor, Armenia, September 2003

This paper was withdrawn by the author.

We discuss recent results from global electroweak fits and from the Tevatron
and review the motivation for physics at the TeV energy scale.

We calculate the physical scalar contribution to the fermionic self energy
matrix at one loop. We make a comment about the difference of our results from
those in the existing literature.

Einstein's revolutionary light quantum hypothesis of 1905 and his further
contributions to quantum theory are reviewed.

I review recent progress in using twistor-inspired methods to compute
perturbative scattering amplitudes in gauge theory, for application to collider
physics.

I discuss the lattice calculations relevant to recent advances in CKM
phenomenology, focusing on those relevant to new experimental results reported
at this workshop.

I review recent theoretical work on electroweak symmetry breaking.

I review the prospects for future progress in accelerator-based particle
physics

An brief unconventional review of Standard Model physics, containing no
plots.

In this talk I review the potential of Icecube for revealing physics beyond
the standard model in the oscillation of atmospheric neutrinos.

We summarize some recent results on the BRST analysis of physical states of
2D gravity coupled to c<=1 conformal matter and the supersymmetric
generalization.

Two quantum theories are physically equivalent if they are related, not by a
unitary transformation, but by an isometric transformation. The conditions
under which a quantum canonical transformation is an isometric transformation
are given.

Superstring theory predicts the existence of a scalar field, the dilaton. I
review some basic features of the dilaton interactions and explain their
possible consequences in cosmology and particle physics.

The Hilbert space formalism of quantum mechanics is reviewed with emphasis on
applications to quantum computing. Standard interferomeric techniques are used
to construct a physical device capable of universal quantum computation. Some
consequences for recursion theory and complexity theory are discussed.

We investigate two methods of obtaining exactly solvable potentials with
analytic forms.

The role of Kac-Moody algebras in exploiting symmetries of particle physics
and string theory is described.

An expression for energy in string-inspired dilaton gravity is obtained in
canonical approach.

Charged matter spin-1 fields enjoy a nonelectromagnetic gauge symmetry when
interacting with vacuum electromagnetism, provided their gyromagnetic ratio is
2.

We present a general analysis of the field theoretical properties which
guarantee the recovery, at the renormalized level, of symmetries broken by
regularization. We also discuss the anomalous case.

The bare bones of a theory of quantum gravity are exposed. It may have the
potential to solve the cosmological constant problem. Less certain is its
behavior in the Newtonian limit.

The use of the physical variables in the fashion of Dirac in the
three-dimensional Chern-Simons theories is presented. Our previous results are
reinterpreted in a new aspect.

The analogy between General Relativity and monopole physics is pointed out
and the presence of a 3-cocycle which corresponds to a source leads to
discretization of field momentum. This is analogous to the same phenomena in
monopole physics.

We use some BRS techniques to construct Chern-Simons forms generalizing the
Chern character of K_1 groups in the Cuntz-Quillen description of cyclic
homology.

John Bell's emphasis of the essential ambiguities in anomaly calculations is
recalled. Some descendants of the anomaly are reviewed.

We show that cohomology of the variational complex in field-antifield BRST
theory on an arbitrary manifold is equal to the de Rham cohomology of this
manifold.

A brief overview is given of recent progress in understanding the dynamics of
hot gauge theories.

A covariant quantization method for physical systems with reducible
constraints is presented.

I give a pedagogical and historical introduction to axion physics, and
briefly review the present status of axions in our understanding of particle
physics and cosmology. This is a contribution to Continuous Advances in QCD
2002/Arkadyfest, held in honor of Arkady Vainshtein's 60th birthday.

Through a nonperturbative analysis on a sextic triple-well potential, we
reveal novel aspects of the dynamical property of the system in connection with
N-fold supersymmetry and quasi-solvability.

I discuss algorithms for the evaluation of Feynman integrals. These
algorithms are based on Hopf algebras and evaluate the Feynman integral to
(multiple) polylogarithms.

We show that, in gauge theory of principal connections, any gauge
non-invariant Lagrangian can be completed to the BRST-invariant one. The BRST
extension of the global Chern-Simons Lagrangian is present.

Article for the forthcoming Encyclopedia of Mathematical Physics, to be
published by Elsevier. Covers kinks & breathers, sigma-models & Skyrmions,
abelian-Higgs vortices, monopoles, Yang-Mills instantons, and Q-balls.

We review the explicit derivation of the Gauss-Bonet and Hirzebruch formulae
by physical model and give a physical proof of the Lefschetz fixed-point
formula by twisting boundary conditions for the path integral.

I review the theory of renormalization, as applied to weak-coupling
perturbation theory in quantum field theories.

We make an estimate of the quadratic correction based on gauge/string
duality. Like in QCD, it proves to be negative and proportional to the string
tension.

Given a generic Lagrangian system of even and odd fields, we show that any
infinitesimal transformation of its classical Lagrangian yields the identities
which Euclidean Green functions of quantum fields satisfy.

We spell two conundrums, one of physical and another of mathematical nature,
and explain why one helps to elucidate the other

The Grassmann-odd Nambu bracket on the Grassmann algebra is proposed.

The Grassmann-odd Nambu-like bracket corresponding to an arbitrary Lie
algebra and realized on the Grassmann algebra is proposed.

We provide a qualitative review of flux compactifications of string theory,
focusing on broad physical implications and statistical methods of analysis.

This is the talk of the second author at the meeting "Topological Methods in
Physical Sciences", London, November 2000. We review our work on KZB equations.

We demonstrate the relation between the isospectral deformation and Rieffel's
deformation quantization by the action of $\mathbb{R}^d$.

We provide yet another proof of the classical Lagrange-Good multivariable
inversion formula using techniques of quantum field theory.

We discuss the recent results of the author on the existence of systems of
differential equations for chiral genus-zero and genus-one correlation
functions in conformal field theories.

The subfactor approach to modular invariants gives insight into the fusion
rule structure of the modular invariants.

We give an algorithm for calculating the maximum entropy state as the least
fixed point of a Scott continuous mapping on the domain of classical states in
their Bayesian order.

Extended spinor connections associated with composite spin-tensorial bundles
are considered. Commutation relationships for covariant and multivariate
differentiations and corresponding curvature spin-tensors are derived.

We construct a family of automorphisms of Mickelsson algebra, satisfying
braid group relations. The construction uses 'Zhelobenko cocycle' and includes
the dynamical Weyl group action as a particular case.

Withdrawn by author - Superseded by arXiv:0910.5106 [math.FA].

V. Drinfeld proposed conjectures on geometric Langlands correspondence and
its quantum deformation. We refine these conjectures and propose their
relationship with algebraic conformal field theory.

Operads and PROPs are presented, together with examples and applications to
quantum physics suggesting the structure of Feynman categories/PROPs and the
corresponding algebras.

In contrast with differential operators on modules over commutative and
graded commutative rings, there is no satisfactory notion of a differential
operator in noncommutative geometry.

The essential role played by Chern--Simons terms in a variety of physical
models provides yet another illustration of the unexpected but profound
interactions between the two disciplines.

In the case of simple graded manifolds utilized in supermechanics,
supervector fields and exterior superforms are represented by global sections
of smooth vector bundles.

It is proved that the divergent Rayleigh-Schrodinger perturbation expansions
for the eigenvalues of any odd anharmonic oscillator are Borel summable in the
distributional sense to the resonances naturally associated with the system.

We establish a general local formula computing the topological anomaly of
gauge theories in the framework of non-commutative geometry.

Part I. Some Facts From p-Adic Analysis. Part II. Tables of Integrals.

We study the obstruction to the exactness of the variational complex for a
field theory on an affine bundle.

This paper discusses entropy production in nonequilibrium steady states for
infinite quantum spin systems. Rigorous results have been obtained recently in
this area, but a physical discussion shows that some questions of principle
remain to be clarified.

The paper has been withdrawn by the authors

This paper has been withdrawn by the authors, due to an error in the proof of
Lemma 3.1.

We present a simple proof of the factorization of (complex) symmetric
matrices into a product of a square matrix and its transpose, and discuss its
application in establishing a uniqueness property of certain antilinear
operators.

We prove that there is no consistent polynomial quantization of the
coordinate ring of a basic non-nilpotent coadjoint orbit of a semisimple Lie
group.

The algebraic notion of a differential operator on a module over a
commutative ring is not extended to a module over a noncommutative ring.

Typographical corrections to the original paper, intended for publication in
Physical Review E.

A transformation is found between the one dimensional Schroedinger equation
and a pendulum problem. It is demonstrated how to construct exact solutions
with the resulted pendulum equation. The relation of this transformation to the
Zakharov-Shabat equations is pointed out.

After introducing some cohomology classes as obstructions to orientation and
spin structures etc., we explain some applications of cohomology to physical
problems, in special to reduced holonomy in M- and F-theory.

We comment that the conditionally exactly solvable potential of Dutt et al.
and the exactly solvable potential from which it is derived form a dual system.

An informal guide to the history of Heisenberg's matrix mechanics. It is
designed for mathematicians with only a minimal background in either physics or
geometry, and it is based upon Heisenberg's original arguments.

We outline the scheme for quantization of classical Banach space results
associated with some prototypes of dynamical maps and describe the quantization
of correlations as well. A relation between these two areas is discussed.

Explicit algebraic relations between the quantum integrals of the elliptic
Calogero-Moser quantum problems related to the root systems A_2 and B_2 are
found.

The purpose of this short note, is to rewrite Morozov's formula for
correlation functions over the unitary group, in a much simpler form, involving
the computation of a single determinant.

The enveloping algebra,$D_{n}$,of fermions is extended on the lattice to
include the discrete space invariance.This extended algebra,denoted X, has the
space symmetry as a factor : $X/D_{n}$ = space group.

A simple recursive scheme for parameterisation of n-by-n unitary matrices is
presented.

The complex Minkowski phase space has the physical interpretation of the
phase space of the scalar massive conformal particle. The aim of the paper is
the construction and investigation of the quantum complex Minkowski space.

We review mathematical results concerning exponentially small corrections to
adiabatic approximations and Born--Oppenheimer approximations.

We extend the Poincare'-Lyapounov-Nekhoroshev theorem from torus actions and
invariant tori to general (non-abelian) involutory systems of vector fields and
general invariant manifolds.

We use instanton numbers to: (i) stratify moduli of vector bundles, (ii)
calculate relative homology of moduli spaces and (iii) distinguish curve
singularities.

In this work some nonlinear integral equation is studied. This equation has
arisen in the (super)string field theory and cosmology. In this work it is
proved that some boundary problem for this equation has a solution.

We comment on some misunderstandings exhibited in a recent paper by Matolcsi
et al. (Gen. Rel. Grav.39 413 (2007)).

We consider a quantum graph consisting of a ring with Rashba hamiltonian and
an arbitrary number of semi-infinite wires attached. We describe the scattering
matrix for this system and investigate spin filtering for a three terminal
device.

Lectures delivered at the 17th National Nuclear Physics Summer School 2005,
Berkeley, CA, June 6-17, 2005.

We provide a detailed analysis of the problems and prospects of superstring
theory c. 1986, anticipating much of the progress of the decades to follow.

We exhibit a family of *-isomorphisms mapping the CAR algebra onto its even
subalgebra.

This paper is a lab tutorial (and a theory primer) for the integral quantum
Hall effect experiment as conducted at Applied Solid State Physics, University
of Bochum, Germany.

This article briefly reviews the quantum Hall effect and the contributions of
the winners of the 1998 Nobel Prize in Physics.

I review recent developments in spin dynamics in electron storage rings and
accelerators.

The first attainment of longitudinal spin polarisation in a high energy
electron (positron) storage ring is described.

The relativity theory principles and the quants theory principles are deduced
from logic properties of the information, obtained from a physics device.

The Helfrich's shape equation of axisymmetric vesicles is studied. A
sufficient condition on the physical parameters and some geometric properties
are discovered for the biconcave shape.

This is a Physics World features paper on Chen-Tajima proposal to detect
Unruh radiation by means of high-intensity lasers (PRL 83, 256 (1999)).

In the line of thought of Einstein's 1905 paper on relativity, I get a
physical derivation of Lorentz transformation (LT) answering its main criticism
and considerably enlarging the area of applications of the theory of
relativity.

A non Monte Carlo path-integral algorithm that is particularly adept at
handling nonlinear Lagrangians is extended to multivariate systems. This
algorithm is particularly accurate for systems with moderate noise.

Cooling methods are discussed in reference to the electron-positron, ion and
muon beams.

The history of the Department of Energy's Institute for Nuclear Theory,
located on the campus of the University of Washington, is reviewed on the
occasion of the INT's tenth anniversary.

This article provides a (semi-)popular introduction to the phenomenology of
neutrino masses.

The physical nature of the photon mixing and photon echo processes is
discussed on the basis of inequality of the forward and backward optical
transitions.

The most tight conformations of prime knots are found with the use of the
SONO algorithm. Their curvature and torsion profiles are calculated. Symmetry
of the knots is analysed. Connections with the physics of polymers are
discussed.

An analysis of the collapse of the Twin Towers is carried on with the aid of
simple mechanical laws. The motion of the collapse front is calculated in terms
of geometric and energetic quantities.

This paper was withdrawn by the author.

Making use of the theory of infinitesimal canonical transformations, a
concise proof is given of Jacobi's identity for Poisson brackets.

A brief description of the work for which the first half of the Nobel prize
for physics for the year 2002 is presented.

It is shown in this paper that one does not need to use just exponential
dumping factor when computing the Rutherford formula within Born approximation.
Text, which is very simple, might be of interest for physics students as well
as for physics teachers.

It is shown that, in spite of the appearances, the standard expression for
the oscillation probability of ultrarelativistic neutrinos is Lorentz
invariant.

Main parameters of future lepton-hadron colliders are estimated. Namely,
THERA and Linac*LHC based ep, gamma-p, eA and FEL gamma-A colliders are
considered. The physics search potential of these machines are considered.

This note is about three interesting 15th and 16th century sightings of
comets in Kashmiri chronicles. We provide reasons for their identification as
the 1468 S1, 1531 (Halley's), and 1533 M1 comets.

Physics and mathematics are difficult enough without the aditional burden of
bad habits. In this article, we examine some helpful habits that tend to be
underemphasized by many physics teachers (mainly because they seem so
obvious!).

The experiments with broadband down-converted light clearly show inequality
of forward and reversed processes in optics.

The thermodynamic properties of ideal quantum gases are derived solely from
dimensional arguments, the Pauli principle and thermodynamic relations, without
resorting to statistical mechanics.

We compare chemotaxis, the migration of cells and higher animals in reaction
to a chemical stimulus, and similar phenomena originating within gases from
temperature differences. Then we explain two easy mathematical models for
handling experimental data.

In general relativity (GR) no observer is physically privileged. As a strict
consequence, it can be shown that the physical generation of gravitational
waves (GW's) is quite impossible.

The question of whether extreme value statistics should be introduced into
courses for physics students has been broached recently. Here it is argued that
the topic should be taught but the many and varied physical applications should
be stressed; emphasis should not be confined purely to abstract theory.

We suugest a simple hypothesis on physical origin of quantum superposition,
which is a generalization of our "hidden time" hypothesis, suggested before.

Handling substance-like physical quantities in the limits of special
relativity theory we should make a net distinction between those which present
a proper (rest) magnitude and those which have not. We show how the theory
relates them via relativistic transformation equations.

Determinism and indeterminism in physical theories are reviewed and some
broader implications of determinism are discussed.

In this article the current understanding of fundamental particles and their
interactions is presented for the interested non-specialist, by adopting a
semi-historical path. A discussion on the unresolved problems is also
presented.

The role of impossibilities in theories of Physics is mentioned and a recent
result is recalled in which Quantum Mechanics is characterized by three
information-theoretic impossibilities. The inconvenience of the asymmetries
established by such impossibilities is pointed out.

The physical mechanism of phenomenon is explained as a result of inequality
of forward and reversed processes in optics. The importance of experimental
study of its invariance relation is discussed.

Based on relativistic velocity addition and the conservation of momentum and
energy, I present derivations of the expressions for the relativistic momentum
and kinetic energy, and $E=mc^2$.

A simple experiment is described for the direct determination of the
wavelength dependence of the Rayleigh scattering cross section using the
classical example of the blue sky.

We present a very simple method of obtaining spectacular fractals, using a
particular case of a lifting Hele-Shaw cell.

The series solution of the behavior of a finite number of physical bodies and
Chaitin's Omega number share quasi-algorithmic expressions; yet both lack a
computable radius of convergence.

A catalogue of explicit realizations of representations of (super) Lie
algebras and quantum algebras in Fock space is presented.

It is is explained why physical consistency requires substituting linear
observables by nonlinear ones for quantum systems with nonlinear time evolution
of pure states. The exact meaning and the concrete physical interpretation are
described in full detail for a special case of the nonlinear Doebner-Goldin
equation.

The physical content of Chern-Simons-action is discussed and it is shown that
this action is proportional to the usual charged matter interaction term in
electrodynamics.

A new interpretation of nonrelativistic quantum mechanics explains the
violation of Bell's inequality by maintaining realism and the principle of
locality.

The main aim of this article is to discuss characteristic physical phenomena
which govern the destruction of quantum coherence of material wave packets.

A deformation of the Fock space based on the finite difference replacement
for the derivative is introduced. The deformation parameter is related to the
dimension of the finite analogue of the Fock space.

This paper has been superseded by quant-ph/0101003.

Generalizing a recent proposal leading to one-parameter families of
Hamiltonians and to new sets of squeezed states, we construct larger classes of
physically admissible Hamiltonians permitting new developments in squeezing.
Coherence is also discussed.

We study whether the entanglement of formation is additive over tensor
products and derive a necessary and sufficient condition for optimality of
vector states that enables us to show additivity in two special cases.

Simultaneous decompositions of a pair of states into pure ones are examined.
There are privileged decompositions which are distinguished from all the other
ones.

For appropriate parameters, the ground state for the Schroedinger and Ampere
coupled equations in a cylindric domain does not have axial symmetry.

The uniformly valid approximation to solutions of the radial Schr\"odinger
equation with power-law potentials are obtained by means of the explicit
summation of the leading constituent WKB series.

This paper is withdrawn.

I describe the early (1974--75) work I did on what is now called the Zeno
problem in quantum mechanics. Then I propose a new formulation which may
obviate a vexing problem of operator limits and which also may be more
measurement-compatible.

We discuss the recently proposed quantum action - its interpretation, its
motivation, its mathematical properties and its use in physics: quantum
mechanical tunneling, quantum instantons and quantum chaos.

We derive in a straightforward way the spectrum of a hydrogen atom in a
strong magnetic field.

In this paper we establish a relation between two exactly-solvable problems
on one-dimensional hyperbolics space, namely singular Coulomb and singular
oscillator systems.

We characterize all the phase space measurements for a non-relativistic
particle.

In this letter the explicit form of evolution operator for the four atoms
Tavis-Cummings model is given.

A building principle working for both atoms and monoatomic ions is proposed
in this Letter. This principle relies on the q-deformed chain SO(4) > G where G
= SO(3)_q.

We clarify the microscopic structure of the entangling quantum measurement
superoperators and examine their possible physical realization in a simple
three-qubit model, which implements the entangling quantum measurement with an
arbitrary degree of entanglement.

We investigate the problem of coexistence of position and momentum
observables. We characterize those pairs of position and momentum observables
which have a joint observable.

A special class of soft quantum measurements as a physical model of the fuzzy
measurements widely used in physics is introduced and its information
properties are studied in detail.

We present theoretical and experimental evidences, which show that the
material phase of the state vector is causally related with the dynamic of the
quantum system and becomes carrier of physical information.

The present work is a brief review of the progressive search of improper
delta-functions which are of interest in Quantum Mechanics and in the problem
of motion in General Relativity Theory.

We define generalized vector fields, and contraction and Lie derivatives with
respect to them. Generalized commutators are also defined.

In quantum field theory it is generally assumed that there is a lower bound
to the energy of a quantum state. Here, it will be shown that there is no lower
bound to the energy of physical states in QED in a manifestly covariant gauge.

The interpretation of an experimental realization of Wheeler's delayed-choice
gedanken experiment is discussed and called into question.

This is a philosophy paper rather than mathematical physics work. I will
publish it in some other place.

Results from the Fermilab Tevatron pbar-p collider on diffractive and total
cross sections are reviewed with emphasis on physics significance and
properties pointing to expectations at the LHC.

Recent results from HERA are presented. The main reviewed subjects are
polarized DIS cross sections, parton density determination, diffractive PDFs,
multi-jet production and searches for physics beyond the Standard Model.

I review recent progress in calculating |V_{us}| from lattice QCD kaon and
hyperon systems. A preliminary result from the first dynamical calculation in
the hyperon channel is included.

We construct all vacuum states of $\mathcal{N}=2$ supersymmetric Yang-Mills
quantum mechanics (for SU(N) group) and discuss their origin from the SU(N)
real cohomology.

The physical non-existence of gravitational waves (GW's) as a consequence of
the non-existence in general relativity (GR) of physically privileged reference
frames, and of the ``plasticity'' of relativistic notion of a coordinate
system.

We identify quotient polynomial rings isomorphic to the recently found
fundamental fusion algebras of logarithmic minimal models.

Methods of particle beam cooling are reviewed.

Based on quantitative predictions enabled by a nonperturbative approach to
Yang-Mills thermodynamics it is explained why the physics of photon {\sl
propagation} is not unlikely rooted in pure SU(2) gauge dynamics.

The nonlinear flow equations discussed recently by Bender and Feinberg are
all reduced to the well-known Euler equation after change of variables.

Nonlinear ODEs invariant under the group SL(2,R) are solved numerically. We
show that solution methods incorporating the Lie point symmetries provide
better results than standard methods.

We present an overview of the different renormalization proofs of the non
commutative $\phi_4^{\star 4}$ model. This paper is a contribution to the
MemPhys project.

The genesis of spurious solutions in finite basis approximations to operators
which possess a continuum and a point spectrum is discussed and a simple
solution for identifying these solutions is suggested.

Select recent results from the Thomas Jefferson National Laboratory Spin
Physics program, along with the perspective on some upcoming experiments.

We discuss the problem to develop a mathematical theory of a certain class of
nonrational conformal field theories (CFT) which contain the unitary CFT. A
variant of the concept of a modular functor is proposed that appears to be
suitable for such CFT.

In this short note, we describe some recent results on the pointwise
existence of the Lyapunov exponent for certain quasi-periodic cocyles.

A simple physical model differentiates effective from ineffective teaching
and identifies elements that make teaching productive, with specific
implications concerning training of teachers.

The physics perspectives of the production and decay of single top quarks and
top quark pairs at the CERN Large Hadron Collider (LHC) are reviewed from a
phenomenological point of view.

The purpose of this paper is to present the notion of quotient of supergroups
in different categories using the unified treatment of the functor of points
and to examine some physically interesting examples.

We introduce on physical grounds a new measure of multipartite entanglement
for pure states. The function we define is discriminant and monotone under LOCC
and moreover can be expressed in terms of observables of the system.

In the Born-Infeld 'harmonic gauge' description of M-branes moving in R^{M+1}
the underlying M+2 dimensional Poincare - invariance gives rise to an
interesting system of conservation laws showing signs of integrability.

The rise of quantum mechanics is reviewed with special attention to the
development between June 1925 and October 1927 when the Copenhagen
interpretation was proposed.

A superposition rule for two solutions of a Milne--Pinney equation is
derived.

We discuss recent results on heavy and light baryon spectroscopy

This is a comment on Chen et al Letter PRL,100, 232002 (2008).

We review some known facts in the transport theory of mesoscopic systems,
including counting statistics, and discuss its relation with the mathematical
treatment of open systems.

I discuss and connect a number of topics in small-x physics at HERA and at
LHC, pointing out recent progress and open questions in theory and
phenomenology.

Some recent progress in the mathematical physics of rapidly rotating, dilute
Bose gases in anharmonic traps is reviewed.

We review the life and remarkable contributions to Physics of Gregor Wentzel.

We present a model which determines the correct value of the magnetic dipole
moment of the electron. By this, we find a physical meaning for the electron
spin.

On october 21st 1983 took place in S\`evres on the western outskirts of Paris
the official funeral of the meter. With it the notion of distance as a physical
observable was buried.

We review the physics performance of the ATLAS detector for hard probes in
heavy ion collisions, focusing on three topics: jet reconstruction, direct
photon measurement, and heavy flavor jet tagging.

This article describes the analyses presented at the XXVIII Physics in
Collision conference about top quark cross sections performed at Tevatron.

I review recent lattice calculations of hyperon physics, including hyperon
spectroscopy, axial coupling constants, form factors and semileptonic decays.

We evaluate binomial series with harmonic number coefficients, providing
recursion relations, integral representations, and several examples. The
results are of interest to analytic number theory, the analysis of algorithms,
and calculations of theoretical physics, as well as other applications.

Effective field theories provide a bridge between QCD and nuclear physics. I
discuss light nuclei from this perspective, emphasizing the role of
fine-tuning.

A set of two-dimensional semi-riemannian submanifolds of flat semi-riemannian
manifolds is associated to each Toda theory. The method and an example are
given to Toda theories associated to real finite dimensional Lie algebras.

In this work, bi-para-complex analogue of Lagrangian and Hamiltonian systems
was introduced on Lagrangian distributions. Yet, the geometric and physical
results related to bi-para-dynamical systems were also presented.

In this study, Lagrangian and Hamiltonian systems, which are mathematical
models of mechanical systems, were introduced on the horizontal and the
vertical distributions of tangent and cotangent bundles. Finally, some
geometrical and physical results related to Lagrangian and Hamiltonian
dynamical systems were deduced.

We point out four problems which have arisen during the recent research in
the domain of Combinatorial Physics.

These notes constitute the introduction to potential theory I exposed at the
XIIth brazilian school of probability inside Elisabetta Scoppola's Introduction
to Metastability.

We study the limiting behavior for the solutions of a nonlinear recurrent
relation which arises from the study of Navier-Stokes equations. Some stability
theorems are also shown concerning a related class of linear recurrent
relations.

In this work we study the Ermakov-Lewis invariants of the non-linear
Gross-Pitaeviskii equation

The goal of this paper is to present Euler-Lagrange and Hamiltonian equations
on R2n which is a model of para-Kaehlerian manifolds of constant J-sectional
curvature. In conclusion, some differential geometrical and physical results on
the related mechanic systems have been given.

This study presents standard Cliffordian Kaehler analogue of Lagrangian
mechanics. Also, the some geometric and physical results related to the
standard Cliffordian Kaehler dynamical systems are given.

wave solutions to nonlinear partial differential equations. We simplify the
so called (G'/G)-expansion method and apply two of those methods to simple
physical problems.

In this study, Clifford Kaehler analogue of Lagrangian dynamics is
introduced. Also,the some geometrical and physical results over the obtained
Clifford Kaehler dynamical systems are discussed.

The aim of this study is to introduce quaterinon Kaehler analogue of
Lagrangian mechanics. Finally, the geometric and physical results related to
quaternion Kaehler dynamical systems are also presented.

A procedure is described to associate fibre bundles over the circle to two-
dimensional theories with defects which have their field equations and defects
described by a zero curvature condition.

This resource letter intends to provide middle school science teachers with a
collection of resources to aid them in planning and implementing a physical
science curriculum. The resources are in the form of books, websites, journals,
and organizations.

We concisely review the history, physics and significance of coherent states.

The spatiality of derivations of quasi *-algebras is investigated by means of
representation theory. Moreover, in view of physical applications, the
spatiality of the limit of a family of spatial derivations is considered.

In the realm of Continuum Physics, material bodies are realized as continous
media and so-called extensive quantities, such as mass, momentum and energy,
are monitored through the fields of their densities, which are related by
balance laws constitutive equations.

The fact that the conserved current of a gauge symmetry is reduced to a
superpotential is proved in a very general setting.

We give a trace inequality related to the uncertainty relation of
Wigner-Yanase-Dyson skew information. This inequality corresponds to a
generalization of the uncertainty relation derived by S. Luo for the quantum
uncertainty quantity excluding the classical mixture.

It is shown that for a class of position dependent mass Schroedinger equation
the shape invariance condition is equivalent to a potential symmetry algebra.
Explicit realization of such algebras have been obtained for some shape
invariant potentials.

The Klein-Fock-Gordon equation is studied on the generalized Y-junction of
$N$ strings with a massive center. The corresponding formulas for wave
scattering and normal modes are obtained.

This review article was prepared for the Landolt-Boernstein volume on
Relativisitc Heavy Ion Physics.

Generating functions and sum rules are discussed for transition probabilities
between quantum oscillator eigenstates with time-dependent parameters.

The possibility of simulating a stochastic process by the intrinsic
randomness of quantum system is investigated. Two simulations of Markov Chains
by the measurements of quantum systems are proposed.

We give a mathematical definition of dynamical evolution in quantum field
theory, including evolution on space-like surfaces, and show its relationship
with the axiomatic and perturbative approaches to QFT.

We present full classification of Q-conditional symmetries for the
two-dimensional nonlinear wave equation.

In this short report it is argued that by the use of wavelets formalism it is
possible to describe the q-bit state. The wavelet formalism address the
real-valued physical signals, for example, obtained during typical physical
measurements.

I give a very brief non-technical introduction to the intersection of the
fields of spin systems and computational complexity. The focus is on spin
glasses and their relationship to NP-complete problems.

This lecture discusses the Higgs boson sector of the SM and the MSSM,
including their connection to electroweak precision physics and the searches
for SM and SUSY Higgs bosons at the LHC.

We discuss two recent applications of homotopy analysis method and homotopy
perturbation method and conclude that the results are completely useless from
both mathematical and physical points of view.

In this note, we compute the Poisson cohomology groups for any Poisson Del
Pezzo surface.

Rotations, boosts and translations in 8 + 1 spacetime are developed based on
the commutation and anticommutation relations of SU(3). The process follows a
process that gives 3 + 1 spacetime from SU(2).

In the present paper, we introduce para-quaternionic Kaehler analogue of
Lagrangian and Hamiltonian mechanical systems. Finally, the
geometrical-physical results related to para-quaternionic Kaehler mechanical
systems are also given.

I outline the construction of exactly Poincar\'e invariant quantum models
that satisfy cluster separability but do not conserve particle number.

Local variables can't describe the quantum correlations observed in tests of
Bell inequalities. Likewise, we show that nonlocal variables can't describe
quantum correlations in a relativistic time-order invariant way.

A simple mechanical problem is considered which we believe will help students
to familiarize some concepts of mechanics of variable mass systems. Meanwhile
they can even learn some thrilling physics of bungee jumping.

We give a trace inequality related to the uncertainty relation of generalized
Wigner-Yanase-Dyson skew information which includes our result in JMAA,
vol.365, pp.12-18, 2010.

We present a derivation of the Landau-Zener solution through the explicit
evaluation of the time ordered propagator. The result is exact and does not
involve the solution of the differential equation for the spin amplitudes.

A simple integral that illustrates the concepts of regularization,
subtraction, renormalization and renormalization group employed in perturbative
quantum field theory(PQFT) is considered.

As a material property and as a metaphor, thermal conductivity occupies an
important position in physical, biological and geological sciences. Yet, its
precise measurement is dependent on using electricity as a proxy because
flowing heat cannot directly be measured.

We present the current status of searches for physics beyond the Standard
Model at the Tevatron 1.96-TeV proton-antiproton collider using data collected
with the CDF experiment. We cover searches for supersymmetry, extra dimensions
and new gauge bosons.

We present an elementary argument showing that the sign of $\hbar$ in the
basic formulation of Quantum Mechanics can be changed without incurring in any
physical consequences.

We use mixed Hodge structures to investigate Feynman amplitudes as functions
of external momenta and masses.

We put on a rigorous basis results of Aisaka and Aldo Arroyo on curved
{\beta}{\gamma} systems on a quadric. Drinfeld's quasimaps turned to be
indispensable in accurate computation of mini-BRST cohomology.

We give a purely logical proof of the J. Conway and S. Kochen Free Will
theorem concerning undeterminacy in Quantum Mechanics (Notices of the AMS,
February 2009, Vol. 56/2, p. 226). The logical method seems to be very
powerful.

A few key issues of present and future explorations of the physics of top
quarks at the Tevatron and LHC are discussed.

Will the cosmological multiverse, when described mathematically, have easily
stated properties that are impossible to prove or disprove using mathematical
physics? We explore this question by constructing lattice multiverses which
exhibit such behavior even though they are much simpler mathematically than any
likely cosmological multiverse.

This is a brief digest of my closing lecture at the XXII Rencontres de Blois,
Particle Physics and Cosmology. Slides of all the talks referred to may be
found at http://confs.obspm.fr/Blois2010.

The superintegrability of recently discussed TTW model is proven using
standard methods of analytical mechanic.

This is an overview of various aspects of the 6-vertex model in statistical
mechanics and related models.

We put forward a model of discrete physical space that can account for the
structure of space- time, give an interpretation to the postulates of quantum
mechanics and provide a possible explanation to the organization of the
standard model of particles.

An infinite integral over four spherical Bessel functions is analytically
evaluated for the special case when the arguments k_3=k_1 and k_4=k_2

We present a brief introduction to quantum sheaf cohomology, a generalization
of quantum cohomology based on the physics of the (0,2) nonlinear sigma model.

I write about H\'ector, his contributions to the early work in the quark
model, and a general discussion of quantum statistics

The least action principle seems not to lead to equations describing the
motion consistent with the physical behavior for nonholonomic constrains. Here
an answer to this question in proposed.

Details are provided how GAPP evaluates the strong coupling constant from Z
and tau decays and the corresponding uncertainties.

In this paper, we consider the physical meaning of the zeros and poles of
partition function. We consider three different systems, including the harmonic
oscillator in one dimension, Riemann zeta function and the quasinormal modes of
black hole.

In this short note we use the umbral formalism to derive the Ramanujan Master
Theorem and discuss its extension to more general cases.

This is an extended abstract for a talk given at the Oberwolfach workshop
"The Renormalization Group", March 13th - March 19th, 2011.

The structure functions of the Lagrangian gauge algebra are given explicitly
in terms of the hamiltonian constraints and the first order Hamiltonian
structure functions and their derivatives.

Here we overview a possible mechanism for confining but chirally symmetric
matter at low temperatures and large densities.

In this note we extend the Dirac method to partial differential equations
involving higher order roots of differential operators.

We discuss two-Higgs-doublet models in view of the present flavour data, in
particular present indirect bounds and different techniques of flavour
protection

It is shown that the Jones-Hore theory is either inconsistent or cannot
describe single-molecule experiments.

We report on selected recent results from the CDF and D0 experiments on
searches for physics beyond the Standard Model using data from the Tevatron
collider running $p\bar p$ collisions at $\sqrt{s}$ = 1960 GeV.

The energy for protein folding arises from multiple sources and is not large
in total. In spite of the many specific successes of energy landscape and other
approaches, there still seems to be some missing guiding factor that explains
how energy from diverse small sources can drive a complex molecule to a unique
state. We explore the possibility that the missing factor is in the geometry.
  A comparison of folding with other physical phenomena, together with analytic
modeling of a molecule, led us to analyze the physics of optical caustic
formation and of folding behavior side-by-side. The physics of folding and
caustics is ostensibly very different but there are several strong parallels.
This comparison emphasizes the mathematical similarity and also identifies
differences. Since the 1970's, the physics of optical caustics has been
developed to a very high degree of mathematical sophistication using
catastrophe theory. That kind of quantitative application of catastrophe theory
has not previously been applied to folding nor have the points of similarity
with optics been identified or exploited.
  A putative underlying physical link between caustics and folding is a torsion
wave of non-constant wave speed, propagating on the dihedral angles and $\Psi$
found in an analytical model of the molecule.
  Regardless of whether we have correctly identified an underlying link, the
analogy between caustic formation and folding is strong and the parallels (and
differences) in the physics are useful.

Explicit structure constants are calculated for certain Lie algebras of
vectorfields on 2-dimensional compact manifolds.

The perspectives of introductory classical physics students can often
negatively influence how those students later interpret quantum phenomena when
taking an introductory course in modern physics. A detailed exploration of
student perspectives on the interpretation of quantum physics is needed, both
to characterize student understanding of physics concepts, and to inform how we
might teach traditional content. Our previous investigations of student
perspectives on quantum physics have indicated they can be highly nuanced, and
may vary both within and across contexts. In order to better understand the
contextual and often seemingly contradictory stances of students on matters of
interpretation, we interviewed 19 students from four introductory modern
physics courses taught at the University of Colorado. We find that students
have attitudes and opinions that often parallel the stances of expert
physicists when arguing for their favored interpretations of quantum mechanics,
allowing for more nuanced characterizations of student perspectives in terms of
three key interpretive themes. We present a framework for characterizing
student perspectives on quantum mechanics, and demonstrate its utility in
interpreting the sometimes-contradictory nature of student responses to
previous surveys. We further find that students most often vacillate in their
responses when what makes intuitive sense to them is not in agreement with what
they consider to be a correct response, underscoring the need to distinguish
between the personal and the public perspectives of introductory modern physics
students.

We give asymptotic behaviors of the von Neumann entropy and the Shannon
entropy of discrete-time quantum walks on Z^2

Using the Cantero-Grunbaum-Moral-Velazquez (CGMV) method, we obtain the
spectral measure for the quantum walk.

We review the AKSZ construction as applied to the topological open membranes
and Poisson sigma models. We describe a generalization to open topological
p-branes and Nambu-Poisson sigma models.

Probably not.

We present a closed-form expression for integrals involving product of
associated Laguerre polynomials.

The study of harmonic scales of musical instruments is discussed in all
introductory physics texts devoted to the science of sound. In this paper, we
present a new piano keyboard to make the so-called Bohlen-Pierce scale more
functional and pleasing for composition and performance.

We summarize the results obtained in the last few years about permutation
orbifolds in two-dimensional conformal field theories, their application to
string theory and their use in the construction of four-dimensional heterotic
string models.

We present an information-theoretic solution to the paradox of black hole
information loss.

We extend the construction given by [Chisaki et.al, arXiv:1009.1306v1] from
lines to planes, and obtain the associated limit theorems for quantum walks on
such a graph.

We propose a new program to quantize and renormalize gravity based on recent
progress on the analysis of large random tensors. We compare it briefly with
other existing approaches.

Extending the point canonical transformation approach in a manner distinct
from the previous ones, we propose a unified approach of generating potentials
of all classes having non-constant masses.

In this talk I will give an overview on theoretical aspects of top quark
physics. The focus lies on top pair production and single top production.

We describe the state of analysis of the MIPP experiment, its plans to
upgrade the experiment and the impact such an upgraded experiment will have on
hypernuclear physics.

The L\"{o}wdin-Shapiro projection operator for the Higgs algebra is
constructed and utilised to find an analytical expression for the
Clebsch-Gordan coefficients for the same.

The canonical quantization of the tachyon field is suggested. Quantization is
based on the conception of stable and unstable components of the tachyon
degrees of freedom.

A power efficient way to generate low power high voltage is given. The
article describes various aspects of functioning and derives quantitative
relations between different parameters and high voltage generated. Use of
voltage multiplier (Cockcroft-Walton multiplier) network can provide further
boost in the high voltage(~1000V).

The paper has been withdrawn by the author.

This paper has been withdrawn by the author due to a error in attachment of
source file.

We present two different paradoxes related to the length contraction in
special relativity and explain their resolution.

We review an information-theoretic approach to quantum cosmology, summarising
the key results obtained to date, including a suggestion that an accelerating
universe will eventually turn around.

Within an axiomatic framework, we investigate the possible structures of
numbers (as physical quantities) in different theories of relativity.

The N-enlarged Galilei Hopf algebra is constructed. Its twist deformations
are considered and the corresponding twisted space-times are derived.

The main aim of this work was to give constructive proof of stable orbital
motions existence in the systems of bodies, which interact only by magnetic
forces.

The purpose of this article is to show that on an open and dense set,
complete integrability implies the existence of symmetry.

Entropy change in the Carnot cycle is discussed. In particular, the
isentropic change in the adiabatic expansion (or compression) is
reinvestigated.

Nonperturbative lattice methods are applied to the investigation of strong,
electroweak, and gravitational interactions. Selected models of new physics
(expected at the TeV scale) are discussed.

Canonical commutation relations for the Bateman-Hillion type nondispersive
wave packets are constructed

In this short note, I review some recent results about gapped ground state
phases of quantum spin systems and discuss the notion of topological order.

A discussion of the prospects for quantum computation for quantum chemistry
from the point of view of the history of classical calculations of electronic
structure.

The status of the ATLAS Higgs boson search using about 5 fb^-1 of data
recorded in 2011 is summarized. Proceedings from Physics at the LHC 2012
(Vancouver).

A least square based fitting scheme is proposed to do analytic continuation
on one particle temperature Green function.

The present technical notes offer a brief summary of the essential points of
electromagnetism at the undergraduate physics level. Some problems are
presented at the end of each section; those with solutions are marked with an
asterisk.

It is shown that for a liquid in any connected vessels system, it is not
possible to fulfill simultaneously Pascal's principle, mass conservation, and
energy conservation. The viscosity has to necessarily be taken into account to
understand the system change.

In this report, we give a characterization to those quantum channels that
preserve majorization relationship between quantum states. Some remarks are
presented as well.

It is shown that the N-Galilean conformal algebra, with N-odd, is the maximal
symmetry algebra of the free Lagrangian involving (N+1)/2-th order time
derivative.

The question posed in the title is answered in terms of a simple pictorial
argument that is manifestly symmetric between the two functions that are
Legendre transform of each other.

This is a brief review of the phenomenology of the spin Hall effect and
related phenomena.

We review various combinatorial problems with underlying classical or quantum
integrable structures. (Plenary talk given at the International Congress of
Mathematical Physics, Aalborg, Denmark, August 10, 2012.)

The prospects of the future PANDA experiment at FAIR in Darmstadt/Germany in
the field of charmonium and charm spectroscopy are discussed.

In this expository paper we introduce extended topological quantum field
theories and the cobordism hypothesis.

In this short review the role of the Hirota equation and the tau-function in
the theory of classical and quantum integrable systems is outlined.

We make several comments on "Note on the Analytical Solution of the Rabi
Model" (arXiv:1210.4946).

Lecture notes for the proceedings of the workshop "Algebraic Combinatorics
related to Young diagram and statistical physics", Aug. 6-10 2012, I.I.A.S.,
Nara, Japan.

This talk discusses recent studies of (charged) lepton-flavor violation in
physics beyond the standard model.

We present a brief review of CPV and mixing measurements in the charm sector,
with emphasys in results published or presented since the previous edition of
the Physics in Collision Symposia.

In this paper the representation of the position operator and the
Lie-Hamilton equation in the discrete momentum space.

In this thesis work, we have studied the role of positive and completely
positive maps in detecting entanglement.

The conformal transformations corresponding to $N$-Galilean conformal
symmetries, previously defined as canonical symmetry transformations on phase
space, are constructed as point transformations in coordinate space.

A summary of the latest experimental results in heavy flavour physics is
presented.

The Cayley--Hamilton--Newton theorem for half-quantum matrices is proven.

This is the introductory part of my Ph.D thesis, defended at the Faculty of
Science and Technology, NTNU on December 10, 2012.

The procedure of evaluating of the spectrum for discrete periodic operators
perturbed by operators of smaller dimensions is obtained. This result allows to
obtain propagative, guided, localised spectra for different kind of physical
operators on graphs with defects.

This thesis is focused on some solvable quantum mechanical models and their
associated symmetries.

We introduce variational methods for finding approximate eigenfunctions and
eigenvalues of quantum Hamiltonians by constructing a set of orthogonal wave
functions which approximately solve the eigenvalue equation.

Review of the scaling approach to intramolecular vibrational energy flow
emphasizing the classical-quantum correspondence perspective.

In this paper, we establish rigidity and vanishing theorems for Dirac
operators twisted by $E_8$ bundles.

The Force Concept Inventory (FCI) has been widely used to assess student
understanding of introductory mechanics concepts by a variety of educators and
physics education researchers. One reason for this extensive use is that many
of the items on the FCI have strong distractor choices that correspond to
students' alternate conceptions in mechanics. Instruction is unlikely to be
effective if instructors do not know the common alternate conceptions of
introductory physics students and explicitly take into account students'
initial knowledge state in their instructional design. Here, we discuss
research involving the FCI to evaluate the pedagogical content knowledge of
both instructors and teaching assistants (TAs) of varying teaching experience.
For each item on the FCI, the instructors and TAs were asked to identify the
most common incorrect answer choice of introductory physics students. We also
discussed the responses individually with a few instructors. Then, we used the
FCI pre-test and post-test data from a large population (~900) of introductory
physics students to assess the pedagogical content knowledge of physics
instructors and TAs. We find that while both physics instructors and TAs, on
average, performed better than random guessing at identifying introductory
students' difficulties with FCI content, they did not identify many common
difficulties that introductory physics students have, even after traditional
instruction. Moreover, the ability to correctly identify students' difficulties
was not correlated with the teaching experience of the physics instructors.

The status of theta13 measurements from Daya Bay, RENO and Double Chooz
experiments is reviewed.

These lecture notes are based on a course given at Institut de Physique
Th\'eorique of CEA/Saclay in January/February 2013.

We propose an alternative definition for pseudo-bosons. This simplifies the
mathematical structure, minimizing the required assumptions. Some physical
examples are discussed, as well as some mathematical results related to the
biorthogonal sets arising out of our framework.

We discuss the traditional criterion for discovery in Particle Physics of
requiring a significance corresponding to at least 5 sigma; and whether a more
nuanced approach might be better.

Some aspects are discussed of the mechanism of color confinement in QCD by
condensation of magnetic monopoles in the vacuum.

We present the current status for the measurements of the ttbar charge
asymmetry at the Tevatron and LHC colliders.

We describe explicitly the dispersion relations and spectra of periodic
Schrodinger operators on a graphyne nanotube structure.

The QBist view of science, first put forth to dispel the fog from quantum
foundations, also clears up a longstanding puzzle in classical physics.

Using known entropic and information inequalities new inequalities for some
classical polynomials are obtained. Examples of Jacobi and Legendre polynomials
are considered.

We construct a Lax pair with spectral parameter for a two-parameter doubly
Poisson-Lie deformation of the principal chiral model.

Theoretical studies in attosecond physics and chemistry require a
full-fledged quantum physical framework including light-field-controlled
pulses; this is one hypothesis lying behind the present work. At laboratory
level electromagnetic (EM) radiation and matter interaction discloses its
quantum nature.

In this talk we summarize some recent developments in perturbative QCD and
their application to particle physics phenomenology.

The asymptotic expansion of the Korteweg-de Vries-Burgers equation is
presented in this paper.

We review known results on the relations between conformal field theory, the
quantization of moduli spaces of flat PSL(2,R)-connections on Riemann surfaces,
and the quantum Teichmueller theory.

We analyze the physical aspects and origins of currently proposed oracles for
(absolute) randomness.

Reinhard Werner authored a comment on my paper "What Bell Did", disputing the
conclusion and argumentation of the paper. This is my reply.

The present status and and future plans of the physics program of Central
Exclusive Production at RHIC are described.

A method for the bosonization of complex actions is presented. Together with
the convergent perturbation theory it provides a conceptually new way for
bypassing fermion sign problems.

We show that the oriented context category and the oriented spectral presheaf
are complete invariants of a von Neumann algebra not isomorphic to
$\mathbb{C}\oplus\mathbb{C}$ and with no direct summand of type $I_2$.

In this paper we explore the Zeta function arising from a small perturbation
on a surface of revolution and the effect of this on the functional determinant
and in the change of the Casimir energy associated with this configuration.

A review of the book "A Brief History of String Theory: From Dual Models to
M-Theory" by Dean Rickles

We review the construction of models of algebraic quantum field theory by
renormalized perturbation theory.

I review the effective field theory approach to LHC Higgs data.

There is no mysterious link between mathematics and physics, because both of
them are human inventions designed to study the world.

In this article, we extend the result of Boltzmann on characterisation of
collision invariants from the case of hard disks to a class of two-dimensional
compact, strictly-convex particles.

I discuss the role of relativistic quantum mechanics in few-body physics,
various formulations of relativistic few-body quantum mechanics and how they
are related.

I present a scheme of drawing causal diagrams based on physically motivated
mathematical models expressed in terms of temporal differential equations. They
provide a means of better understanding the processes and causal relationships
contained within such systems.

This paper is based on a talk delivered on 16 November, 2015 in Osaka at the
Nambu's Century: International Symposium on Yoichiro Nambu's Physics

We develop a method for finding the zero modes of the Dirac operator in the
presence of BPS monopoles. We use it to find the zero modes in the case of
Abelian BPS monopoles in $\mathbb R^3$.

Boundary conditions in relativistic QFT can be classified by deep results in
the theory of braided or modular tensor categories.

Opening Lecture at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Jockey
Club Institute for Advanced Study Program on High Energy Physics Conference,
January 18--21, 2016.

I present a simple variant of the Schr\"odinger cat meets Wigner's friend
thought experiment. If you are shocked by it, you have not understood quantum
physics (no words are missing from this sentence).

Physical interpretation of Lie algebra of de Sitter group is given for Snyder
theory of quantum space-time. Feasible means of its experimental validation are
pointed out.

This is a version (less professional editing, more details and jokes) of an
APS Physics Viewpoint about three recent papers extending charge-vortex duality
to fermionic vortices.

We demonstrate that all gauge instantons in a $d=3+1$ Yang-Mills theory, with
generic topological vacuum charge K, correspond to soliton solutions and kink
scalar fields in $d=4+1$ space-time.

By means of a suitable rational approximation to the logarithmic derivative
of the wavefunction we obtain tight upper and lower bounds to the eigenvalues
and critical parameters of the quartic double-well potential.

No.

I give my perspective on promising directions for high energy physics in
coming years.

A physical picture for Quantum Mechanics which permits to conciliate it with
the usual common sense is proposed. The picture agrees with the canonical
Copenhagen interpretation making more clear its statements.

We summarize recent progress in describing the confinement-deconfinement
transition from a novel perturbative approach.

Multiple elliptic polylogarithms can be written as (multiple) integrals of
products of basic hypergeometric functions. The latter are computable, to
arbitrary precision, using a q-difference equation and q-contiguous relations.

We give a short and rigorous proof of the existence and uniqueness of the
solution of Liouville equation with sources, both elliptic and parabolic, on
the sphere and on all higher genus compact Riemann surfaces.

The lecture presents an overview of the quest for the new physics in low
energy neutron phenomena. In addition to the traditional topics the quantum
damping of $n$ $\bar{n}$ oscillations is discussed.

The Comment by Xiong et al. (arXiv:1610.06275) criticizing my Letter [Phys.
Rev. Lett. 116, 133903 (2016)] was rejected by Physical Review Letters. In this
Reply, I show that all their claims are wrong.

We review and update the current status of the observed anomalies in stellar
cooling and their interpretation in terms of axions and axion like particles.

Modifying Rudin's original construction of the Rudin-Shapiro sequence, we
derive a new substitution-based sequence with purely absolutely continuous
diffraction spectrum.

Some recent progress and open questions in extracting and understanding the
new physics underlying the density dependence of nuclear symmetry energy from
laboratory experiments are discussed.

We extend the classical Wick rotation to D-modules and higher codimensional
submanifolds.

These notes are based on two lectures given at the Twelfth Modave Summer
School in Mathematical Physics 2016. The Fronsdal equation and action for both
Minkowski and (A)dS backgrounds are discussed in detail.

We generalize Thouless bandwidth formula to its n-th moment. We obtain a
closed expression in terms of polygamma, zeta and Euler numbers.

Higher-derivative analogues of multidimensional conformal particle and
many-body conformal mechanics are constructed. Their Newton-Hooke counterparts
are derived by applying appropriate coordinate transformations.

This is a summary of the recent PHYSTAT-$\nu$ Workshops in Japan and at
Fermilab, on `Statistical Issues in Experimental Neutrino Physics'.

We demonstrate how one can see quantization of geometry, and quantum
algebraic structure in supersymmetric gauge theory.

We discuss two threshold phenomena in blood coagulation dynamics using a
simplified model. This perspective of the underlying complex phenomena is
expected to aid the understanding and characterization of many blood
coagulation pathologies with altered protein dynamics.

I use Supergravity as a test case to study the role and uses of
elegance/simplicity in formulating and evaluating physical models, whose sole
criterion is of course truth: an observationally verified description of Nature
within a certain range of scales.

We define a square matrices, by which some stochastic local operations and
classical communication (SLOCC) invariants can be obtained. The relation of
SLOCC invariants and character polynomial of square matrix are given for three
and four qubit states.

The physics community explores and explains the physical world through a
blend of theoretical and experimental studies. The future of physics as a
discipline depends on training of students in both the theoretical and
experimental aspects of the field. However, while student learning within
lecture courses has been the subject of extensive research, lab courses remain
relatively under-studied. In particular, there is little, if any, data
available that addresses the effectiveness of physics lab courses at
encouraging students to recognize the nature and importance of experimental
physics within the discipline as a whole. To address this gap, we present the
first large-scale, national study ($N_{institutions}=75$ and
$N_{students}=7167$) of undergraduate physics lab courses through analysis of
students' responses to a research-validated assessment designed to investigate
students' beliefs about the nature of experimental physics. We find that
students often enter and leave physics lab courses with ideas about
experimental physics as practiced in their courses that are inconsistent with
the views of practicing experimental physicists, and this trend holds at both
the introductory and upper-division levels. Despite this inconsistency, we find
that both introductory and upper-division students are able to accurately
predict the expert-like response even in cases where their views about
experimentation in their lab courses disagree. These finding have implications
for the recruitment, retention, and adequate preparation of students in
physics.

We classify a number of symmetry protected phases using Freed-Hopkins'
homotopy theoretic classification. Along the way we compute the low-dimensional
homotopy groups of a number of novel cobordism spectra.

We discuss the quarkonium hybrid spectrum from the perspective of
nonrelativistic effective field theories combined with lattice QCD.

We show that Hurwitz numbers may be generated by certain correlation
functions which appear in quantum chaos.

We analyze properties of unstable systems at rest and in motion.

Two tests are described that were developed for benchmarking and comparison
of numerical codes in the context of AWAKE experiment.

Enabled by recent advances in symmetry and electronic structure, researchers
have observed signatures of unconventional threefold degeneracies in tungsten
carbide, challenging a longstanding paradigm in nodal semimetals.

The main result of this note is a characterization of the Poisson
commutativity of Hamilton functions in terms of their principal action
functions.

We review the discovery of reflection positivity. We also explain a new
geometric approach and proof of the reflection positivity property.

Complex numerical weather prediction models incorporate a variety of physical
processes, each described by multiple alternative physical schemes with
specific parameters. The selection of the physical schemes and the choice of
the corresponding physical parameters during model configuration can
significantly impact the accuracy of model forecasts. There is no combination
of physical schemes that works best for all times, at all locations, and under
all conditions. It is therefore of considerable interest to understand the
interplay between the choice of physics and the accuracy of the resulting
forecasts under different conditions. This paper demonstrates the use of
machine learning techniques to study the uncertainty in numerical weather
prediction models due to the interaction of multiple physical processes. The
first problem addressed herein is the estimation of systematic model errors in
output quantities of interest at future times, and the use of this information
to improve the model forecasts. The second problem considered is the
identification of those specific physical processes that contribute most to the
forecast uncertainty in the quantity of interest under specified meteorological
conditions.
  The discrepancies between model results and observations at past times are
used to learn the relationships between the choice of physical processes and
the resulting forecast errors. Numerical experiments are carried out with the
Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF) model. The output quantity of interest
is the model precipitation, a variable that is both extremely important and
very challenging to forecast. The physical processes under consideration
include various micro-physics schemes, cumulus parameterizations, short wave,
and long wave radiation schemes. The experiments demonstrate the strong
potential of machine learning approaches to aid the study of model errors.

We show an atom of atomic number $Z$ described by the time-dependent
Thomas-Fermi equation or the Vlasov equation cannot bind more than $4Z$
electrons.

An algebraic technique adapted to the problems of the fundamental theoretical
physics is presented. The exposition is an elaboration and an extension of the
methods proposed in previous works by the aut

This is the manuscript version of the Physics ViewPoint article introducing
the paper "Observation of half-quantum vortices in topological superfluid
$^3$He", by S. Autti et al., which appeared in Physical Review Letters,
December 14, 2016.

These programme notes were written for a production of "Hapgood" at the
Hampstead Theatre, London in December 2015. I thank Sir Tom Stoppard for
helpful suggestions.

This paper explores the physics of the what-if question "what if the entire
Earth was instantaneously replaced with an equal volume of closely packed, but
uncompressed blueberries?" While the assumption may be absurd, the consequences
can be explored rigorously using elementary physics. The result is not entirely
dissimilar to a small ocean-world exoplanet.

An inductive realization of Loop Vertex Expansion is proposed and is applied
to the construction of the $\phi_1^4$ theory. It appears simpler and more
natural than the standard one at least for some situations.

Notwithstanding its great influence in modern physics, the EPR
thought-experiment has been explained incorrectly a surprising number of times.

This is the summary of a talk given at CIPANP 2018. I briefly introduce
neural networks and then discuss a new technique for model-independent new
physics searches in background-dominated datasets.

Brief recollections of two giants of physics, their origins, similarities and
differences.

We report recent results on radiative $B$ decays at Belle at the KEKB
collider.

A novel formulation of statics in terms of the exterior algebra of an affine
space is shown to be the underlying mathematical structure of Vlasov's
thin-walled beam theory in structural mechanics.

I briefly summarize highlights of ICHEP2018, comment on the 50th anniversary
of the Standard Model, and share some of my thoughts for the future.

We construct all polynomial tau-functions of the BKP, DKP and MDKP
hierarches.

We study one particle subspaces for two particles of different masses with
ultra local interaction on a lattice of arbitrary dimension.

We give a complete description of the discrete spectrum of one-dimensional
Hamiltonian with a general perturbation of the radius $1$.

Loop Quantum gravity predicts that black holes evolve into white holes.

In this paper we suggest to anticipate the introduction of concepts such as
quantum state and the operators connected to their transformations well in
advance of what is usually done.

The full set of Casimir elements of the centrally extended l-conformal
Galilei algebra is found in simple and tractable form.

A detailed study is presented of the relativistic Wigner function for a
quantum spinless particle evolving in time according to the Salpeter equation.

We show that for a rather generic set of regular spectral curves, the
Topological-Recursion invariants F_g grow at most like $O((\beta g)! r^{-g}) $
with some $r>0$ and $\beta\leq 5$.

We formulate quantum theory taking as a starting point the cone of states.

We have used the Topological String Theory partition function in the scaling
limit, to relate the Black Hole partition function and Topological String
Theory partition function.

It is proved that the variance of spin overlap vanishes in the infinite
volume limit of random field Ginzburg-Landau model using its FKG property.

This work is devoted to the study of some important questions in general
relativity. They include topics related to astrophysical shock waves, impulsive
signals, gravitational memory effect, black hole geometries and integrable
systems connected with them.

A hybrid quantum-classical model is proposed whereby a micro-structured
(Cosserat-type) continuum is construed as a principal Hilbert bundle

Classical physics is generally regarded as deterministic, as opposed to
quantum mechanics that is considered the first theory to have introduced
genuine indeterminism into physics. We challenge this view by arguing that the
alleged determinism of classical physics relies on the tacit, metaphysical
assumption that there exists an actual value of every physical quantity, with
its infinite predetermined digits (which we name \emph{principle of infinite
precision}). Building on recent information-theoretic arguments showing that
the principle of infinite precision (which translates into the attribution of a
physical meaning to mathematical real numbers) leads to unphysical
consequences, we consider possible alternative indeterministic interpretations
of classical physics. We also link those to well-known interpretations of
quantum mechanics. In particular, we propose a model of classical indeterminism
based on \emph{finite information quantities} (FIQs). Moreover, we discuss the
perspectives that an indeterministic physics could open (such as strong
emergence), as well as some potential problematic issues. Finally, we make
evident that any indeterministic interpretation of physics would have to deal
with the problem of explaining how the indeterminate values become determinate,
a problem known in the context of quantum mechanics as (part of) the ``quantum
measurement problem''. We discuss some similarities between the classical and
the quantum measurement problems, and propose ideas for possible solutions
(e.g., ``collapse models'' and ``top-down causation'').

We characterize the linear maps that preserve maximally entangled states in
$L(\mathcal X \otimes \mathcal Y)$ in the case where $\dim(\mathcal X)$ divides
$\dim(\mathcal Y)$.

The construction of the Ward-like operator of the interacting string field
theory presented by Witten, in terms of the half-string (comma) oscillator
modes, is completed.

I briefly summarize my personal opinions on the current status of HEP theory
and comment on the so-called "non-empiric confirmation."

This is a comment on the paper : Quantum Interference between Light Sources
Separated by 150 Million Kilometers by Deng et al, PHYSICAL REVIEW LETTERS 123,
080401 (2019)

Lecture notes used in a graduate-level Introduction to Solid State Physics
course at Cornell University, to serve as a supplement to textbooks at the
level of Ashcroft & Mermin.

In this note we review the basic mathematical ideas used in finance in the
language of modern physics. We focus on discrete time formalism, derive path
integral and Green's function formulas for pricing. We also discuss various
risk mitigation methods.

The familiar "modulus squared" form of all quantum mechanical probabilities
is derived from an assumption of equal a priori probabilities concerning the
final states available.

Physics-based models of dynamical systems are often used to study engineering
and environmental systems. Despite their extensive use, these models have
several well-known limitations due to simplified representations of the
physical processes being modeled or challenges in selecting appropriate
parameters. While-state-of-the-art machine learning models can sometimes
outperform physics-based models given ample amount of training data, they can
produce results that are physically inconsistent. This paper proposes a
physics-guided recurrent neural network model (PGRNN) that combines RNNs and
physics-based models to leverage their complementary strengths and improves the
modeling of physical processes. Specifically, we show that a PGRNN can improve
prediction accuracy over that of physics-based models, while generating outputs
consistent with physical laws. An important aspect of our PGRNN approach lies
in its ability to incorporate the knowledge encoded in physics-based models.
This allows training the PGRNN model using very few true observed data while
also ensuring high prediction accuracy. Although we present and evaluate this
methodology in the context of modeling the dynamics of temperature in lakes, it
is applicable more widely to a range of scientific and engineering disciplines
where physics-based (also known as mechanistic) models are used, e.g., climate
science, materials science, computational chemistry, and biomedicine.

Lecture notes written for a one-semester course in mathematical relativity
aimed at mathematics and physics students. Not meant as an introduction to
general relativity, but rather as a complementary, more advanced text.

The relationship between the chemical picture of an isolated molecule and
that arising from the eiegenfunctions of the Schrodinger Coulomb Hamiltonian
ror the isolated molecule are examined and discussed.

This is a narrative of the basic theoretical ideas of axisymmetric
two-dimensional solitons and of their connection to basic experiments on
magnetic compounds. A shortened and edited version appeared in Physics Today.

We show that compatible almost-complex structures on symplectic manifolds
correspond to optimal quantizations.

This essay is a tribute to Professor Roman Jackiw on the occasion of his
eightieth year.
  It discusses some ideas about Fermion zero modes and fractional charges and
quantum entanglement.

In this paper we prove that the Euler-Lagrange equations for the limit shape
for the inhomogeneous six vertex model on a cylinder have infinitely many
conserved quantities.

We show the explicit expression of the geometric phase for $n$-partite
Gaussian states. In our analysis, the covariance matrix can be obtained as a
boundary term of the geometric phase.

A review is given on the foundations and applications of non-Hermitian
classical and quantum physics. First, key theorems and central concepts in
non-Hermitian linear algebra, including Jordan normal form, biorthogonality,
exceptional points, pseudo-Hermiticity and parity-time symmetry, are delineated
in a pedagogical and mathematically coherent manner. Building on these, we
provide an overview of how diverse classical systems, ranging from photonics,
mechanics, electrical circuits, acoustics to active matter, can be used to
simulate non-Hermitian wave physics. In particular, we discuss rich and unique
phenomena found therein, such as unidirectional invisibility, enhanced
sensitivity, topological energy transfer, coherent perfect absorption,
single-mode lasing, and robust biological transport. We then explain in detail
how non-Hermitian operators emerge as an effective description of open quantum
systems on the basis of the Feshbach projection approach and the quantum
trajectory approach. We discuss their applications to physical systems relevant
to a variety of fields, including atomic, molecular and optical physics,
mesoscopic physics, and nuclear physics with emphasis on prominent
phenomena/subjects in quantum regimes, such as quantum resonances,
superradiance, continuous quantum Zeno effect, quantum critical phenomena,
Dirac spectra in quantum chromodynamics, and nonunitary conformal field
theories. Finally, we introduce the notion of band topology in complex spectra
of non-Hermitian systems and present their classifications by providing the
proof, firstly given by this review in a complete manner, as well as a number
of instructive examples. Other topics related to non-Hermitian physics,
including nonreciprocal transport, speed limits, nonunitary quantum walk, are
also reviewed.

We review the special theory of relativity kinematics and dynamics as well as
the general theory of relativity under the aspect of logic.

We present a coordinate space version of the factorization formula for the
connected tree part of the chronological products. We consider a general
framework and then we apply it for the QCD case.

Inspired by Eynard-Orantin topological recursions, we reformulate the
Virasoro constraints for curves as residues of multilinear differentials. As
applications they can be used to compute the $n$-point functions of
Gromov-Witten invariants of curves.

The article below is based on lectures delivered to new students remotely in
the course of orientation. It presents the quantum theory tree from its
inception a century ago till today. The main focus is on the nuclear physics -
HEP branch.

The construction of the $p$-adic quantum Gaussian channel is suggested.
Entropy gain is calculated. The adelic formula for the entropy gain is
obtained.

The optimal 2-uniform convexity of Schatten classes $S_p, 1<p\le 2$ was first
proved by Ball, Carlen and Lieb \cite{BCL94}. In this note we revisit this
result using multiple operator integrals and generalized monotone metrics in
quantum information theory.

In this note, we prove that any tau-function of the KdV hierarchy also solves
the BKP hierarchy after a simple rescaling of times.

We discuss some equivalence relations between the non-relativistic quantum
mechanics for particles subjected to potentials and for particles moving freely
on background geometries. In particular, we illustrate how selected geometries
can be used to regularize singular potentials.

This write-up of the ICHEP plenary "Heavy Ions - theory" focusses on some
recent LHC discoveries and future opportunities in heavy ion physics (HIP) that
are at the intersection with high energy physics (HEP).

This paper identifies and confirms a perceptual phenomenon: when users
interact with simulated objects in a virtual environment where the users' scale
deviates greatly from normal, there is a mismatch between the object physics
they consider realistic and the object physics that would be correct at that
scale. We report the findings of two studies investigating the relationship
between perceived realism and a physically accurate approximation of reality in
a virtual reality experience in which the user has been scaled by a factor of
ten. Study 1 investigated perception of physics when scaled-down by a factor of
ten, whereas Study 2 focused on enlargement by a similar amount. Studies were
carried out as within-subjects experiments in which a total of 84 subjects
performed simple interaction tasks with objects under two different physics
simulation conditions. In the true physics condition, the objects, when dropped
and thrown, behaved accurately according to the physics that would be correct
at that either reduced or enlarged scale in the real world. In the movie
physics condition, the objects behaved in a similar manner as they would if no
scaling of the user had occurred. We found that a significant majority of the
users considered the movie physics condition to be the more realistic one.
However, at enlarged scale, many users considered true physics to match their
expectations even if they ultimately believed movie physics to be the realistic
condition. We argue that our findings have implications for many virtual
reality and telepresence applications involving operation with simulated or
physical objects in abnormal and especially small scales.

We give a short proof of Gao's Quantum Union Bound and Gentle Sequential
Measurement theorems.

In this paper we review the basic results concerning the Wigner transform and
then we completely solve the quantum forced harmonic/inverted oscillator in
such a framework; eventually, the tunnel effect for the forced inverted
oscillator is discussed.

Reasoning about the behaviour of physical objects is a key capability of
agents operating in physical worlds. Humans are very experienced in physical
reasoning while it remains a major challenge for AI. To facilitate research
addressing this problem, several benchmarks have been proposed recently.
However, these benchmarks do not enable us to measure an agent's granular
physical reasoning capabilities when solving a complex reasoning task. In this
paper, we propose a new benchmark for physical reasoning that allows us to test
individual physical reasoning capabilities. Inspired by how humans acquire
these capabilities, we propose a general hierarchy of physical reasoning
capabilities with increasing complexity. Our benchmark tests capabilities
according to this hierarchy through generated physical reasoning tasks in the
video game Angry Birds. This benchmark enables us to conduct a comprehensive
agent evaluation by measuring the agent's granular physical reasoning
capabilities. We conduct an evaluation with human players, learning agents, and
heuristic agents and determine their capabilities. Our evaluation shows that
learning agents, with good local generalization ability, still struggle to
learn the underlying physical reasoning capabilities and perform worse than
current state-of-the-art heuristic agents and humans. We believe that this
benchmark will encourage researchers to develop intelligent agents with
advanced, human-like physical reasoning capabilities. URL:
https://github.com/Cheng-Xue/Hi-Phy

We derive braided $C^*$-tensor categories from gapped ground states on
two-dimensional quantum spin systems satisfying some additional condition which
we call the approximate Haag duality.

The proof of the Jacobi property of the guiding-center Vlasov-Maxwell bracket
underlying the Hamiltonian structure of the guiding-center Vlasov-Maxwell
equations is presented.

A detailed analysis of the PPT square conjecture is given.

Starting from general considerations, some ideas of the philosopher Derek
Parfit on consciousness, self-awareness, and reductionism are briefly reviewed
and critically examined from the standpoint of physics.

I give a theory motivation for future measurements in quark flavour physics,
trying to identify observables, which are less familiar, but nevertheless
interesting and promising.

As a neuroscientist and a theoretical physicist, both working on time, we
have decided to open a direct dialogue to examine if the apparent discrepancies
regarding the nature of time can be composed.

The notion of semi-direct product of Poisson $G$-spaces is applied to
illuminate examples arising in spin-extensions of Ruijsenaars models.

In every state of a quantum particle, Wigner's quasidistribution is the
unique quasidistribution on the phase space with the correct marginal
distributions for position, momentum, and all their linear combinations.

B\"acklund-type transformations in four-dimensional space-time and an
intriguing reduced zero-curvature formulation for axially symmetric membranes,
with diffeomorphism-, resp. Lorentz-, symmetries reappearing after orthonormal
gauge-fixing, are found.

We study correlation functions of the characteristic polynomials in coupled
matrix models based on the Schur polynomial expansion, which manifests their
determinantal structure.

In this note, we show the representability of density-entropy pairs with
canonical and grand-canonical states, and we provide bounds on the kinetic
energy of the representing states.

Schroedinger equations with position dependent mass which are scale invariant
and admit second order integrals of motion are classified.

We assess the state of naturalness in high-energy physics and summarize
recent approaches to the three major naturalness problems: the cosmological
constant problem, the electroweak hierarchy problem, and the strong CP problem.

Contrary to a recent assertion [Fulvio Melia "The electroweak horizon
problem" 2022], there is no electroweak horizon problem.

The idea that wave-function collapse is a physical process stems from a
misunderstanding of probability and the role it plays in quantum mechanics.

In this paper, we revise the derivation of the Gross-Pitaevskii equation from
the Heisenberg spin chain stressing physical aspects and all technicalities.

We introduce the notion of reduced relative quantum entropy and prove that it
is convex. This result is then used to give a simplified proof of a theorem of
Lieb and Seiringer.

We investigate a system of differential equations for the beta function of
massless scalar $\phi^4$ theory and continue the combinatorial investigation of
the cut structure of Feynman diagrams.

Although organizations are continuously making concerted efforts to harden
their systems against network attacks by air-gapping critical systems,
attackers continuously adapt and uncover covert channels to exfiltrate data
from air-gapped systems. For instance, attackers have demonstrated the
feasibility of exfiltrating data from a computer sitting in a Faraday cage by
exfiltrating data using magnetic fields. Although a large body of work has
recently emerged highlighting various physical covert channels, these attacks
have mostly targeted open-loop cyber-physical systems where the covert channels
exist on physical channels that are not being monitored by the victim. Network
architectures such as fog computing push sensitive data to cyber-physical edge
devices--whose physical side channels are typically monitored via state
estimation. In this paper, we formalize covert data exfiltration that uses
existing cyber-physical models and infrastructure of individual devices to
exfiltrate data in a stealthy manner, i.e., we propose a method to circumvent
cyber-physical state estimation intrusion detection techniques while
exfiltrating sensitive data from the network. We propose a generalized model
for encoding and decoding sensitive data within cyber-physical control loops.
We evaluate our approach on a distributed IoT network that includes computation
nodes residing on physical drones as well as on an industrial control system
for the control of a robotic arm. Unlike prior works, we formalize the
constraints of covert cyber-physical channel exfiltration in the presence of a
defender performing state estimation.

We consider some elementary features of Newtonian gravity, or electrostatics,
as defined on an N-sphere. In particular, we present and discuss "the shell
theorem" for this system.

We show that the effective secular equation proposed several years ago is
suitable for estimating the location of the exceptional points of eigenvalue
equations. As an illustrative example we choose the well known Mathieu

In this paper we demonstrate that the different generalizations of the
Schwarzians, supersymmetric or purely bosonic, can be easily constructed by
using the nonlinear realizations technique.

Scattering from a scale invariant potential in two spatial dimensions leads
to a class of novel identities involving the sinc function.

We take a tour through the past, present and future of Effective Field
Theory, with applications ranging from LHC physics to cosmology.

A software for simplification of Dirac matrix polynomials that arise in
particle physics problems is implemented.

We estimate commutators of quadratic operators $Q_a$ in Jordan algebras.
These estimates can be used to construct the scattering theory in quantum
fields theories formulated in terms of Jordan algebras.

We extend to manifolds endowed with a general geometric structure, the
classical notions of gradient as well as Laplace operator, and provide some of
their natural properties.

The Dunham expansion for the one-dimensional two-turning-point eigenvalue
problem for all orders in the WKB approximation is examined. An explicit form
for all the odd order terms in the expansion which are are total derivatives is
given.

We give a conceptual treatment of the Seiberg-Witten map as a
quasi-isomorphism of $A_\infty$-algebras.

This thesis demonstrates the photo-physics of hybrid metal halide perovskite
semiconductor thin films and its application to solar cells.

The present text provides a short, non-technical account of some historical
and educational background and, based on this, of the rationale of the use of
mobile devices in physics education.

In recent years, machine learning has emerged as a powerful computational
tool and novel problem-solving perspective for physics, offering new avenues
for studying strongly interacting QCD matter properties under extreme
conditions. This review article aims to provide an overview of the current
state of this intersection of fields, focusing on the application of machine
learning to theoretical studies in high energy nuclear physics. It covers
diverse aspects, including heavy ion collisions, lattice field theory, and
neutron stars, and discuss how machine learning can be used to explore and
facilitate the physics goals of understanding QCD matter. The review also
provides a commonality overview from a methodology perspective, from
data-driven perspective to physics-driven perspective. We conclude by
discussing the challenges and future prospects of machine learning applications
in high energy nuclear physics, also underscoring the importance of
incorporating physics priors into the purely data-driven learning toolbox. This
review highlights the critical role of machine learning as a valuable
computational paradigm for advancing physics exploration in high energy nuclear
physics.

Modeling sounds emitted from physical object interactions is critical for
immersive perceptual experiences in real and virtual worlds. Traditional
methods of impact sound synthesis use physics simulation to obtain a set of
physics parameters that could represent and synthesize the sound. However, they
require fine details of both the object geometries and impact locations, which
are rarely available in the real world and can not be applied to synthesize
impact sounds from common videos. On the other hand, existing video-driven deep
learning-based approaches could only capture the weak correspondence between
visual content and impact sounds since they lack of physics knowledge. In this
work, we propose a physics-driven diffusion model that can synthesize
high-fidelity impact sound for a silent video clip. In addition to the video
content, we propose to use additional physics priors to guide the impact sound
synthesis procedure. The physics priors include both physics parameters that
are directly estimated from noisy real-world impact sound examples without
sophisticated setup and learned residual parameters that interpret the sound
environment via neural networks. We further implement a novel diffusion model
with specific training and inference strategies to combine physics priors and
visual information for impact sound synthesis. Experimental results show that
our model outperforms several existing systems in generating realistic impact
sounds. More importantly, the physics-based representations are fully
interpretable and transparent, thus enabling us to perform sound editing
flexibly.

The article surveys the known results and conjectures about the analytic
properties of dispersion relations and Fermi surfaces for periodic equations of
mathematical physics and their spectral incarnations.

Physical artificial intelligence can prove to be one of the most important
challenges of the artificial intelligence. The governance of physical
artificial intelligence would define its responsible intelligent application in
the society.

This note details the relationship between the isomonodromic tau-function and
conformal blocks, on a torus with one simple pole. It is based on the author's
talk at ICMP 2021.

A series of two-particle examples of the Ruijsenaars pq-duality is considered
in detail, the dual Hamiltonians are constructed. Of special interest is the
case of the sinh-Gordon model.

Tackling the many open questions in particle physics will require the
construction of new colliders. This short note includes a few considerations
that seem to be brought up rarely.

We prove that certain closable derivations on the GNS Hilbert space
associated with a non-tracial weight on a von Neumann algebra give rise to
GNS-symmetric semigroups of contractive completely positive maps on the von
Neumann algebra.

Our main result is the analysis of singularities of integrands of integrals
representing matrix elements of scattering matrix and inclusive scattering
matrix in perturbation theory. These results are proven for any quantum field
theory in any dimension.

In this survey article for the Encyclopedia of Mathematical Physics, 2nd
Edition, I give an introduction to quantum character varieties and quantum
character stacks, with an emphasis on the unification between four different
approaches to their construction.

We give a mathematical perspective on string compactifications. Submitted as
a chapter in the Encyclopedia of Mathematical Physics.

We present a brief overview of fractional analytic QCD.

L. E. Ballentine's remarks in Physics Today about the QBist interpretation of
quantum mechanics are generally wide of the mark.

Based on the work of Klein and Roodman [\cite{JoshK}] we present an alternate
conclusion as to the charm of blind analysis in physics experiments.

We study the RTT orthosymplectic super Yangians and present their Drinfeld
realizations for any parity sequence, generalizing the results of for non-super
types BCD, a standard parity sequence, and super A-type.

Based on our previous studies of affine Yangian of
$\widehat{\mathfrak{gl}}(1|1)$ we propose Bethe ansatz equations for the
spectrum of $\mathcal{N}=2$ quantum KdV systems.

Application of the Ramsey Infinite Theorem to the variational principles of
physics is discussed. According to the Ramsey Infinite Theorem,there exists the
infinite, monochromatic chain of the pathways (clique), which are completely
built from actual or virtual paths, connecting the intermediate states of the
system.

We review radiative corrections to tau decays into two mesons discussing
their impact in new physics searches.

Theoretical physics suffered a major loss with the death of my dear friend
Jan Zaanen on January 18. This note is my remembrance of him.

This is a short non-technical review focusing on the $\mathcal{W}_N$ family
of $\mathcal{W}$-algebras and on their relation to quantum integrability. It is
a summary of recently given seminars and workshop contributions.

We prove a conjecture of D. Gaiotto on positivity of inner products arising
in studying Landau-Ginzburg boundary conditions for 3d free hypermultiplets in
the 1-dimensional case, and in special cases in higher dimensions.

This is an English (annotated) translation of the German paper by Max Planck
(1943) about "The history of the discovery of the physical quantum of action"

This contribution describes the mathematical theory of topological indices in
solid state systems composed of non-interacting Fermions. In particular, this
covers the spectral localizer and the bulk-boundary correspondence.

In this article, we review some notions of ballistic transport from the
mathematics and physics literature, describe their basic interrelations, and
contrast them with other commonly studied notions of wave packet spread.

We refute the false belief that Lagrangians, both higher-order and nonlocal,
lead inexorably to instability, and an extensive variety of counterexamples are
provided for both higher-order and genuinely nonlocal systems.

In this paper was proved (i) the equivalence of Dirac equation for mass
$\mathsf{m}$ with two entangled Proca fields of mass $\mathsf{2m}$ and (ii) is
proposed an equation and (iii) an 12-dimensional Lie algebra for the entangled
spin fields.

We discuss the regions forbidden to classical scattering trajectories by
repulsive potentials. We give explicit results for the asymptotic form of these
regions, far from the scattering center, in terms of the scattering angle
function.

We discuss the use of methods coming from integrable systems to study
problems of enumerative and algebraic combinatorics, and develop two examples:
the enumeration of Alternating Sign Matrices and related combinatorial objects,
and the theory of symmetric polynomials.

The physics of kinetic mixing between ordinary and mirror photons is
discussed. An important role is played by four linear combinations we dub the
physical photon, the sterile photon, the physical mirror photon, and the
sterile mirror photon. Because of the mass degeneracy between the two gauge
bosons, quantum coherence effects are important. The physical photon becomes a
certain coherent superposition of the bare ordinary photon and the bare mirror
photon. Similarly, the physical mirror photon is another, but {\it not
orthogonal}, coherent superposition. We discuss the physics of the interaction
between physical mirror photons and ordinary matter. Observational signatures
for some hybrid ordinary/mirror binary astrophysical systems are qualitatively
discussed. We show that a small amount of ordinary matter at the center of a
mirror star may make the mirror star observable. We speculate that the recently
reported halo white dwarfs might actually be mirror halo stars.

Cosmic rays have been observed up to energies $10^8$ times larger than those
of the best particle accelerators. Studies of astrophysical particles (hadrons,
neutrinos and photons) at their highest observed energies have implications for
fundamental physics as well as astrophysics. Thus, the cosmic high energy
frontier is the nexus to new particle physics. This overview discusses recent
advances being made in the physics and astrophysics of cosmic rays and cosmic
gamma-rays at the highest observed energies as well as the related physics and
astrophysics of very high energy cosmic neutrinos. These topics touch on
questions of grand unification, violation of Lorentz invariance, as well as
Planck scale physics and quantum gravity.

Recent developments in solar, reactor, and accelerator neutrino physics are
reviewed. Implications for neutrino physics, solar physics, nuclear two-body
physics, and r-process nucleosynthesis are briefly discussed.

In this paper a discussion of kinematics and physics of the Broad Line Region
(BLR) is given. The possible physical conditions in the BLR and problems in
determination of the physical parameters (electron temperature and density) are
considered. Moreover, one analyses the geometry of the BLR and the probability
that (at least) a fraction of the radiation in the Broad Emission Lines (BELs)
originates from a relativistic accretion disk.

Hypernuclear physics plays a decisive role for several features of compact
star physics. I review the impact of hypernuclear potential depths, two-body
hyperon-nucleon and hyperon three-body forces as well as hyperon-hyperon
interactions on the maximum mass, the mass-radius relation, and cooling
properties of neutron stars.

This paper introduces and reviews light forces, atom cooling and atom
trapping. The emphasis is on the physics of the basic processes. In discussing
conservative forces the semi-classical dressed states are used rather than the
usual quantized field dressed states.

We show that the negative c-axis magnetoresistance in cuprates is the normal
state feature.

The well known string solution to Bethe ansatz equations is shown to be
inconsistent in its widely accepted form. A valid refinement demanding higher
order corrections in subsequent roots is identified. A new alternative string
solution is proposed for finite long chains, consistent with the non-Bethe
strings observed earlier.

The discovery of the superfluid phases of Helium 3 in 1971 opened the door to
one of the most fascinating systems known in condensed matter physics.
Superfluidity of Helium 3, originating from pair condensation of Helium 3
atoms, turned out to be the ideal testground for many fundamental concepts of
modern physics, such as macroscopic quantum phenomena, (gauge-)symmetries and
their spontaneous breakdown, topological defects, etc. Thereby the superfluid
phases of Helium 3 enriched condensed matter physics enormously. In particular,
they contributed significantly - and continue to do so - to our understanding
of various other physical systems, from heavy fermion and high-Tc
superconductors all the way to neutron stars, particle physics, gravity and the
early universe. A simple introduction into the basic concepts and questions is
presented.

Building on an analogy with conformal invariance, local scale transformations
consistent with dynamical scaling are constructed. Two types of local scale
invariance are found which act as dynamical space-time symmetries of certain
non-local free field theories. Physical applications include uniaxial Lifshitz
points and ageing in simple ferromagnets.

A general novel approach mapping discrete, combinatorial, graph-theoretic
problems onto ``physical'' models - namely $n$ simplexes in $n-1$ dimensions -
is applied to the graph equivalence problem. It is shown to solve this long
standing problem in polynomial, short, time.

We present a discussion of generalized statistics based on Renyi's, Fisher's
and Tsallis's measures of information. The unifying conceptual framework which
we employ here is provided by information theory. Important applications of
generalized statistics to systems with (multi-)fractal structure are examined.

We examine some aspects of the recent results by K. Binder. The equilibrium
formation/dissolution of droplets in finite systems is discussed in the context
of the canonical and the grand canonical distributions.

In this preface to the Journal of Physics A, Special Edition on Random Matrix
Theory, we give a review of the main historical developments of random matrix
theory. A short summary of the papers that appear in this special edition is
also given.

We provide a unifying axiomatics for Renyi's entropy and non-extensive
entropy of Tsallis. It is shown that the resulting entropy coincides with
Csiszar's measure of directed divergence known from communication theory.

Dynamical scaling in ageing systems, notably in phase-ordering kinetics, is
well-established. New evidence in favour of Galilei-invariance in
phase-ordering kinetics is reviewed.

The Bogoliubov particle considered in [cond-mat/0507125] admits, contrarily
to the claim of the authors, an interesting Hamiltonian structure.

We construct a chiral gauge theory to describe fractionalization of fermions
in graphene. Thereby we extend a recently proposed model, which relies on
vortex formation. Our chiral gauge fields provide dynamics for the vortices and
also couple to the fermions.

A candidate theory of gravity quantized is reviewed.

We present quantization of particle dynamics on one-sheet hyperboloid
embedded in three dimensional Minkowski space. Taking account of all global
symmetries enables unique quantization. Making use of topology of canonical
variables not only simplifies calculations but also gives proper framework for
analysis.

When 4-dimensional general relativity is extended by a 3-dimensional
gravitational Chern-Simons term an apparent violation of diffeormorphism
invariance is extinguished by the dynamical equations of motion for the
modified theory. The physical predictions of this recently proposed model show
little evidence of symmetry breaking, but require the vanishing of the
Pontryagin density.

A mathematical structure is presented that allows one to define a physical
process independent of any background. That is, it is possible, for a set of
objects, to choose an object from that set through a choice process that is
defined solely in terms of the objects in the set itself. It is conjectured
that this background free structure is a necessary ingredient for a
self-consistent description of physical processes and that these same physical
processes are determined by the absence of any background. The properties of
the mathematical structure, denoted Q, are equivalent to the three-dimensional
topological manifold 2T^3 + 3(S^1 x S^2), two three-tori plus three handles,
embedded in four dimensions. The topology of Q reproduces the basic properties
of QED and Einstein gravity.

Taking quantum physics as well as large scale astronomical observations into
account, a spacetime metric is introduced, such that the nonlinear part of the
Einstein tensor contains effects of the order of Planck's constant.

All homothetic self-similar solutions of the Brans-Dicke scalar field in
three-dimensional spacetime with circular symmetry are found in closed form.

Summary of the 10th Topical Workshop on Proton-Antiproton Collider Physics,
Fermilab, May 9-13, 1995.

The recently proposed COMPASS experiment at CERN attempts a measurement of
the gluon polarisation with a precision of delta(Delta g/g) = 0.1. The
experiment uses open charm muoproduction to tag the photon-gluon fusion
process.

Some experimental new Electroweak physics results measured at the LEP/SLD and
the TEVATRON are discussed. The excellent accuracy achieved by the experiments
still yield no significant evidence for deviation from the Standard Model
predictions, or signal to physics beyond the Standard Model. The Higgs particle
still has not been discovered and a low bound is given to its mass.

In this review we consider three important applications of lasers in high
energy physics: gamma gamma, gamma electron colliders, laser cooling, positron
production. These topics are actual now due to plans of construction linear
e+e-, e-e-, gamma-gamma, gamma-e colliders with energies 0.3--1 TeV. High
energy photons for gamma-gamma, gamma-e collisions can be obtained using laser
backscattering. These types of collisions considerably increase physics
potential of linear colliders. Very low emittance of electron beams required
for achieving ultimate gamma-gamma luminosity can be obtained using a laser
cooling of electron beams. Combining a laser-electron Compton scattering with
subsequent conversion of these photons to e+e- pairs on the target (it can be a
laser target) one can get a nice source of polarized positron. In this paper,
we briefly consider these subjects with emphasis on underlying physics of
photon-electron interactions.

An overview is given of muon collider technology and of the current status of
the muon collider research program. The exciting potential of muon colliders
for both neutrino physics and collider physics studies is then described and
illustrated using self-consistent collider parameter sets at 0.1 TeV to 100 TeV
center-of-mass energies.

I briefly summarize the prospects for extending our understanding of physics
beyond the standard model within the next five years.

New facilities for particle and nuclear physics research, which will be
available due to constructing the TESLA linear electron-positron collider
tangentially to the HERA proton ring, are discussed.

Main parameters and physics search potential of gamma-p and gamma-A
colliders, which will be available due to constructing the TESLA linear
electron-positron collider tangentially to the HERA proton ring, are discussed.

One of the most stimulating recent ideas in particle physics involves a
possibility that our universe has additional compactified spatial dimensions,
perhaps as large as 1 mm. In this mini-review, we discuss the results of recent
experimental searches for such large extra dimensions.

The physics at a 500-800 GeV electron positron linear collider, TESLA, is
reviewed. The machine parameters that impact directly on the physics are
discussed and a few key performance goals for a detector at TESLA are given.
Emphasis is placed on precision measurements in the Higgs and top sectors and
on extrapolation to high energy scales in the supersymmetric scenario.

The ZEUS detector has been upgraded in a number of areas to prepare for the
physics opportunities of HERA II. These upgrades, and their physics rationale
and promise, are briefly outlined. The measurement of polarisation at HERA II,
and its importance for the HERA II physics programme, is also discussed.

A highly-asymmetric "psi'' factory" may be the best approach for studying D0
anti-D0 mixing.

This Paper summarize the present status and near term perspectives for
Diffractive Physics at Tevatron. We describe the new detectors that are being
installed around the CDF and D0 interaction regions, and discuss he physics
topics accessible in view of these upgrades.

The BTeV experiment is designed to study beauty and charm physics at the
Fermilab Tevatron collider. The goals are to make an exhaustive search for
physics beyond the Standard Model and make precise measurements of the SM
parameters. The description of the detector and the physics reach are
presented.

Data on low x physics from H1 & ZEUS are presented and their interpretation
discussed. The focus is on the increasing hardness of the energy dependence of
inclusive virtual-photon proton scattering and certain diffractive processes as
the transverse size of the probe decreases.

Selected ZEUS results on the proton and the photon structures are presented.
A short outline of the future measurements, the HERA machine and the ZEUS
detector status is given.

Tevatron Experiments: CDF and D$\not$O collected during October 1992 and
February 1996 (Run I) a data sample of roughly 120 $pb^{-1}$ $ p \bar{p}$
collisions at a center of mass energy $\sqrt{s}=$ 1.8 TeV. A large variety of
physical studies have been performed using these data. Current paper reviews
last results obtained searching for physics beyond the Standard Model. Direct
Supersymmetry (SUSY) searches are not part of this review.

This paper gives an overview of some of the more interesting results obtained
at LEP in tau physics: precision measurements in neutral and charged currents
universality and structure, tau mass, topological and exclusive Branching
Ratios.

Analyses of jet production at HERA have become precise enough to perform QCD
studies which are both competitive and complementary to those at e+e- and
p-pbar colliders. This report summarises some of the latest results on jet
physics from the H1 and ZEUS Collaborations.

These lectures form a personal, and not necessarily comprehensive, survey of
physics at the Fermilab Tevatron proton-antiproton collider. They cover
detectors, analysis issues, and physics prospects for the current Tevatron run.
(Version 2 has typographic corrections).

Main parameters and the physics search potentials of the linac-ring type
lepton-hadron and photon-hadron colliders are discussed. The THERA (TESLA on
HERA), NLC-LHC and CLIC-VLHC proposals are considered.

Recent measurements of time dependent CP asymmetries at the B factories have
led to substantial progress in our understanding of CP violation. In this
article, I review some of these experimental results and discuss their
implications in the Standard Model and their sensitivity to New Physics.

An overview of Run I jet physics at the ppbar Fermilab Tevatron Collider with
a particular emphasis on inclusive jet cross section measurements is given. The
impact of these studies on PDFs constrain from global fits is underlined.
Preliminary results on inclusive jet and di-jet mass cross section measurements
in Run II are then summarized.

The Tevatron Run II program is in progress since 2001. The CDF experiment
have accumulated roughly five times more data than in Run I, with much improved
detectors. Preliminary results from the CDF experiment are presented. We focus
on the recent high $p_{T}$ physics results in Tevatron Run II program.

This is a brief review of experimental strategies for physics beyond the
Standard Model based on the talk given in the ``Physics at LHC'' in Vienna,
July 2004 \cite{vienna}. The emphasis is on Tevatron thematology and
experience.

The brief history, physics program and the current status of the SVD-2
detector is presented. The future plans for the experiments with upgraded
SVD-2M setup is discussed.

Results of searches at the Tevatron for physics (non-SUSY and non-Higgs)
beyond the Standard Model using 200/pb to 480/pb of data are discussed.
Searches at DO and CDF for Z', Lepton-Quark compositeness, Randall-Sundrum
Gravitons, Large Extra Dimensions, W', Leptoquarks and Excited Electrons are
presented here.

An optimization of the CERN-SPL beam line has been performed which leads to
better sensitivities to the $\theta\_{13}$ mixing angle and to the
$\delta\_{CP}$ violating phase than those advocated considering baseline
scenario.

This article presents a review of recent results and an outlook of kaon
physics. After enjoying a renaissance, the discipline is now becoming and
endangered species. Action will be needed to keep kaon physics at the heart of
future FPCP meetings.

Comments on the recent lattice QCD calculations of the flavor-singlet axial
coupling constant $g_A^0$ and individual quark and gluon spin contributions to
the proton spin is given. I point out the physics learned from these
calculations as well as some of the lessons and pitfalls.

Recent results relevant for the B-physics phenomenology, obtained from
lattice QCD simulations by the APE Collaboration, are reviewed. This includes
the B0-B0bar mixing amplitude, B-> pi semileptonic decay and the relative width
difference of B0_s mesons, $(\Delta \Gamma/\Gamma)_{B_s}$.

Staggered formalism of lattice fermion can be cast into a form of direct
product K-cycle in noncommutative geometry. The correspondence between this
staggered K-cycle and a canonically defined K-cycle for finitely generated
abelian group where lattice appears as a special case is proved.

I review investigations of the quark confinement mechanism that have been
carried out in the framework of SU(N) lattice gauge theory. The special role of
Z(N) center symmetry is emphasized.

We solve the Gauss law of SU(2) lattice gauge theory using the harmonic
oscillator prepotential formulation. We construct a generating function of a
manifestly gauge invariant and orthonormal basis in the physical Hilbert space
of (d+1) dimensional SU(2) lattice gauge theory. The resulting orthonormal
physical states are given in closed form. The generalization to SU(N) gauge
group is discussed.

This talk reviews recent lattice QCD calculations relevant for quark flavor
physics. Since lattice results must be accurate and precise to play a
definitive role in phenomenology, the focus is on unquenched results of
quantities which can be calculated most reliably.

Lattice QCD is progressing toward being able to impact our understanding of
nuclei and nuclear processes. I discuss areas of nuclear physics that are
becoming possible to explore with lattice QCD, the techniques that are
currently available and the status of numerical explorations.

I summarize our work of electroweak discussion section held at the 14th
International Workshop on Weak Interactions and Neutrinos. We discussed about a
few physics topics related to electroweak interactions, including $B$ and $K$
physics and weak flavor physics.

I review new developments in Higgs physics and electroweak symmetry breaking
that have resulted from the Madison--Argonne workshops on SSC physics.

The prospects for tau physics at future high-luminosity facilities are
briefly discussed. Although important (and often complementary) contributions
will be made from other machines, the unique experimental environment near
threshold makes the Tau-Charm Factory the best experimental tool for $\tau$
physics.

The unitary gauge fixing technique is applied to the QCD hamiltonian
formulated in terms of angular variables. It is demonstrated that in this
formulation projections on the physical Hilbert space are unnecessary to
separate physical and unphysical degrees of freedom. Therefore the application
of the unitary gauge fixing technique can be extended to the operator level.

In this talk I discuss the effects of physics beyond the standard model on
the process $Z \to b\bar{b}$. I argue that, because the top-quark is heavy,
this process is susceptible to large corrections from new physics.

Proceedings of invited lecture at the Zuoz summer school on hadronic aspects
of collider physics, August 23-31, 1994, Zuoz, Switzerland. Describes the PHI
factory DAPHNE being built at Frascati, Italy, and the physics that can be done
there, with emphasis on its potential for studying CP violation.

The low-energy approach to electric charge quantization predicts physics
beyond the minimal standard model. A model-independent approach via effective
Lagrangians is used examine the possible new physics, which may manifest itself
indirectly through family-lepton--number violating rare decays.

The physics case is summarised for the investigation of high energy spin
phenomena by placing an internal polarised target into HERA's unpolarised
proton beam. The luminosity and experimental sensitivity are discussed.
Estimating the physics reach of single spin asymmetries in different final
states reveals a considerable physics potential in testing the spin sector of
perturbative QCD.

The implications on neutrino physics and on the dynamical generation of the
baryonic asymmetry of a class of $SO(10)$ non-supersymmetric models are
discussed.

We examine the indirect effects of new physics on a variety of processes in
the $B$ system, such as the $Z\to b\bar b$ vertex, the decays $B\to X_s \gamma$
and $B\to X_s\ell^+\ell^-$, and CP violation. {Presented at the 4th
International Conference on Physics Beyond the Standard Model, Lake Tahoe, CA,
December 13-18, 1994}

This is the latest edition of the physics description and manual of the
PYTHIA and JETSET programs for event generation in High Energy Physics.

We discuss physics of the top quark at the Fermilab Tevatron. By the year
2000, many properties of the top quark can be measured at the Tevatron.

We review some of the reactions which can be studied in the $e^-e^-$ mode of
a linear collider and may reveal aspects of physics beyond the realm of the
standard model. The complementarity to $e^+e^-$ scattering is stressed.

Several topics of interest in soft photoproduction physics are discussed.
These include jet universality issues (particle flavour composition), the
subdivision into event classes, the buildup of the total photoproduction cross
section and the effects of multiple interactions.

This report summarises the work done during the Workshop on High Energy
Physics Phenomenology 4 (S.N.Bose National Centre for Basic Sciences, Calcutta,
India, Jan 2-14,1996) in Working Groups IV (Unification and Model Building) and
V (Astroparticle Physics and Neutrinos).

We begin herewith the editing of physics notes taken in the course of Journal
Club seminars at INFN-LNF in 1996. The activity consists of informal talks
about work in progress and/or review of (more or less) recent physics results
of interest to our laboratory. In the section titles the name of the speakers
appear, together with the topics discussed in the seminars. We plan to publish
these notes twice a year.

This talk is an overview of Chiral Perturbation Theory for Kaon physics as
far as not covered by other speakers. It includes a short introduction to the
strengths and weaknesses of Chiral Perturbation Theory and its applications to
semileptonic Kaon decays and $K\to\pi\pi(\pi)$.

We work out and review prospects for future quarkonium physics at HERA. We
focus on the impact of color-octet contributions and discuss how measurements
at HERA can be used to test the picture of quarkonium production as developed
in the context of the NRQCD factorization approach.

We summarize the activity of the Very Large Hadron Collider Physics and
Detector subgroup during Snowmass 96.

I give an overview of the motivations for and theory/phenomenology of
supersymmetry.

A summary of new experimental results and recent theoretical developments
presented in the ``Spin Physics'' working group is given.

We propose a new method to extract the value of |Vtd/Vts| from the ratio of
the decay distributions dBr/ds[B->Xd l^+ l^-}] and dBr/ds[B Xs l^+ l^-].

We discuss the sensitivity of the processes $e^+e^-\to t\bar t$ and
$e^+e^-\to b\bar b$ to special sets of operators describing residual New
Physics effects. Experimental data in this sector together with those expected
in the bosonic sector should allow to constrain possible New Physics schemes
with effective scales in the 10 TeV range.

A review of muon colliders is presented. Basic features of the accelerator
and detector are outlined, and the very exciting physics prospects are
reviewed.

Implications of the effects of non-universalities of the soft SUSY breaking
parameters on dark matter and on physics at colliders is discussed.

In this presentation I will primarily focus on top quark physics but I will
include a discussion of the W-boson mass and the possibility of discovering a
light Higgs boson via associated production at the Tevatron.

The physical nature of most of the gravitating mass in the universe is
completely mysterious. The astrophysical evidence for the presence of this dark
matter and astrophysical constraints on its properties will be reviewed. The
most popular dark-matter candidates will be introduced, and current and future
attempts to search for them directly and indirectly will be discussed.

Recent developments of those areas of astro-particle physics are discussed
that were represented at the HEP97 conference. In particular, the current
status of direct and indirect dark-matter searches and of TeV neutrino and
gamma-ray astronomy will be reviewed.

I discuss the exciting prospects for exploring a wide range of new physics at
a low-energy muon collider.

I discuss the exciting prospects for Higgs and technicolor Goldstone boson
physics at a muon collider.

I concentrate on two topics. One is techniques to distinguish amongst various
oscillation scenarios from atmospheric neutrino data; and the other is the
Borexino solar neutrino detector and its capabilities.

It has been recently proposed to study generic dynamical evolutions of the
neutral kaon system that go beyond quantum mechanics. We explicitly show that,
unless the condition of complete positivity is enforced, those dynamics are
physically inconsistent and should be rejected.

Two introductory lectures on inflation and dark matter presented at the NATO
Advanced Study Institute on Techniques and Concepts of High-Energy Physics.

The prospects of physics beyond the standard model in deep inelastic
scattering are reviewed, emphasizing some scenarios which attained attention
after the observation of an excess of events with large momentum transfer at
HERA.

The consistent description of unstable particles within the framework of
perturbative gauge field theories necessitates the definition and resummation
of off-shell Green's functions, which must respect several crucial physical
requirements. We present the solution to this problem at one-loop, using the
pinch technique.

Aspects of theoretical electroweak physics are summarized, including the
status of electroweak radiative corrections, the hadronic contribution to the
running of alpha, global fits to precision data and their implication for
testing the standard model and constraining new physics, and electroweak
baryogenesis.

I present an overview of standard-model top-quark physics at the Fermilab
Tevatron. Topics discussed include the top-quark mass, weak interaction, strong
interaction, and rare decays.

We review our on-going theoretical and phenomenological investigation of the
prospects to discover QCD-instantons in deep-inelastic scattering at HERA.

A review on theoretical aspects of top quark physics at the Linear Collider
is given with focus on the process $e^+e^-\to t\bar t$ and the presentations
given at this conference.

After presenting an optimistic prediction for the CP-violating parameter
$\epsilon'/\epsilon$ in the standard model, we provide an analysis on new
physics effects in $\epsilon'/\epsilon$.

A condensed survey of various aspects of LEP 1 physics is presented with a
critical examination of the ingredients that are available for theoretical
predictions. A prototype of comparisons for 2f calculations can be found in
hep-ph/9902452.

These lectures provide an introduction to various topics in heavy-flavor
physics. We review the theory and phenomenology of heavy-quark symmetry,
exclusive weak decays of $B$ mesons, inclusive decay rates, and some rare $B$
decays.

An overview of the physics motivations for e-e- colliders is presented.

The status of our understanding of the properties and manifestations of color
superconductivity at zero and low density is briefly reviewed. Future
possibility is highlighted.

I discuss CP violation in $\Lambda$ to p $\pi^-$ comparing the standard model
expectations with what could happen in new physics scenarios. I point out that
Fermilab experiment E871 is sensitive to some of these scenarios.

In this paper we express the effect of new physics on gauge boson self energy
corrections through non-renormalizable dimension six operators. Using the
precision electroweak data we then determine a lower bound on the scale ${\l}$
associated with the underlying new physics. The lower bound on $\l$ is then
used to derive an upper bound on $m_h$ through the triviality relation.

A personal perspective is given on physics of charmless rare B decays: 1997
-- 2003.

1. Introduction - 2. Astrophysics and Cosmology - 3. Neutrino Oscillations -
4. Higgs and New Physics Searches - 5. Flavour Physics and CP Violation - 6.
QCD - 7. Heavy Ion Collisions - 8. Outlook

We give a simple model to explain the origin of fermion families, and
chirality through the use of a domain wall placed in a five dimensional
space-time.

Lecture 1 provides an introduction to dynamical electroweak symmetry
breaking. Lectures 2 and 3 give an introduction to compositeness, with emphasis
on effective lagrangians, power-counting, and the 't Hooft anomaly-matching
conditions.

We review new results in neutrino physics, including the latest data of the
Super-Kamiokande, SNO and K2K experiments.

I review the progress in fundamental spin physics over the past several years
and the prospects for the future. The progress is striking and the prospects
are excellent.

These proceedings contain the 'physical' derivation of the Wandzura-Wilczek
relations for the spin-dependent structure function g2 (amounting to keeping
the intrinsic transverse momentum of quarks, and neglecting the physical
transverse components of the gluon fields), recently generalized for the case
of non-forward processes (hep-ph/0102209). The simple numerical model for the
twist-3 contribution to g2 was also suggested.

A set of signatures for physics processes of potential interests for the CLIC
programme at 1 - 5 TeV are discussed. These signatures, that may correspond to
the manifestation of different scenarios of new physics as well to Standard
Model precision tests, are proposed as benchmarks for the optimisation of the
CLIC accelerator parameters and for a first definition of the required detector
response.

Physics issues at the upcoming and planned colliders are discussed. We
critically review the the different arguments that suggest that New Physics is
bound to materialise at the TeV scale and why we should keep an open minded
approach. The complementarity of the LHC and a moderate energy e+ e- collider
is stressed together with the need for higher energy machines.

We discuss some of the physics opportunities at polarized ep-colliders.
Recent studies for polarized ep-colliders include HERA, EIC and THERA.

I discuss how b decays can be used to unravel new physics beyond the Standard
Model. Decays second order in the weak interaction involving loops and CP
violation are emphasized. This information is complementary to that obtainable
with higher energy machines.

We summarise the present status of the proton spin problem and the physics
possibilities for future polarized ep and pp colliders. This summary is based
on the presentations and discussion sessions at the workshop ``The Spin
Structure of the Proton and Polarized Collider Physics'' (Trento, July 23-28,
2001).

Recollections about a few episodes from the history of physics of vacuum,
connected with the names of Pomeranchuk, Landau, Zeldovich, Sakharov and
Kirzhnits. The text of the talk will be published in the Proceedings of the
International Conference ``From the Smallest to the Largest Distances'',
Tribute to Jean Tran-Thanh-Van, May 24-26, 2001 (``Surveys in High Energy
Physics'', Taylor and Francis, 2002, v.16, No.3).

In the winter season of 2000, the AMANDA (Antarctic Muon And Neutrino
Detector Array) detector was completed to its final state. We report on major
physics results obtained from the AMANDA-B10 detector, as well as initial
results of the full AMANDA-II detector.

We give a brief overview of the physics of gluonic degrees of freedom
associated with the strong (QCD) axial anomaly. The role of this anomalous glue
in the spin structure of the proton and eta'-hadron interactions is discussed.

Due to coherence, there are strong electromagnetic fields of short duration
in very peripheral heavy ion collisions. They give rise to photon-photon and
photon-nucleus collisions with high flux. Photon-photon and photon-hadron
physics at various invariant mass scales are discussed.

The physics at an e+e- linear collider with a center of mass energy of 3-5
TeV is reviewed. The following topics are covered: experimental environment,
Higgs physics, supersymmetry, fermion pair-production, WW scattering, extra
dimensions, non-commutative theories, and black hole production.

ALICE is a unique opportunity for studying low Pt physics and minimum bias
events, and consequently for hunting substructures in strong interactions. The
general question concerning global event properties in pp and ppbar physics is
indeed whether substructures can be seen in the data in a model-independent
way. In other terms, can we identify the interface between perturbative and
non-perturbative regimes?

Data on solar and atmospheric neutrinos provide evidence for neutrino masses
and mixings. We review some basic neutrino properties, the status of neutrino
oscillations and implications for grand unified theories, including
leptogenesis.

An introduction to the recent developments in perturbative heavy quarkonium
physics is given. Covered are the effective theories NRQCD, pNRQCD and vNRQCD,
the threshold expansion, the role of renormalons, and applications to bottom
and top quark physics.

One of the most fascinating ideas coming from particle physics is the concept
of mirror matter. Mirror matter is a new form of matter which is predicted to
exist if mirror symmetry is respected by nature. At the preset time evidence
that mirror matter actually exists is in abundance, coming from a range of
observations and experiments in astronomy, particle physics, meteoritics and
planetary science.

We consider the eigenvalue problems -u"(z) +/- (iz)^m u(z) = lambda u(z), m
>= 3, under every rapid decay boundary condition that is symmetric with respect
to the imaginary axis in the complex z-plane. We prove that the eigenvalues
lambda are all positive real.

I review the signals for New Physics in CP-violating measurements in B and
Lambda_b decays. I also discuss ways of identifying this New Physics, should
such a signal be found.

A great interest for diffraction has been generated these last years by the
HERA data. They give us the first opportunity to understand high energy
diffractive physics in terms of a fundamental theory, i.e. QCD. A review of the
main results from H1 and ZEUS in this field is presented and the relation with
the proton structure function at small x-Bjorken values is discussed.

These lectures given to graduate students in theoretical particle physics,
provide an introduction to the ``inner workings'' of computer algebra systems.
Computer algebra has become an indispensable tool for precision calculations in
particle physics. A good knowledge of the basics of computer algebra systems
allows one to exploit these systems more efficiently.

I review various theoretical questions that arise from data from HERA and the
Tevatron, and which are relevant for the LHC. They range from soft physics,
such as the total cross section, to hard physics, such as Higgs production. In
particular, I argue that the proton's gluon density is somewhat larger at small
$x$ than is currently accepted.

The evidence and the theoretical justification of chiral symmetry restoration
in high-lying hadrons is presented.

We discuss the connection between the understanding of TeV scale physics to
be found at the LHC and a high energy e+e- linear collider, using Higgs
physics, low energy supersymmetry, and the top quark sector as examples.

Summary talk at ICHEP 2002, Amsterdam, July 2002. I have kept very close to
the content and style of the talk as it was delivered. You may access the
associated PowerPoint presentation through a link at
http://www.ichep02.nl/MainPages/PlenaryProgram.html

In Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 101802 (2002); erratum, ibid. 89, 229902(E) (2002),
Bernabeu, Papavassiliou, and Vidal claim that they can extract a
gauge-independent neutrino charge radius (NCR) which is, therefore, a physical
observable. We show here that this claim is incorrect by demonstrating that the
NCR is, in general, gauge-dependent.

I review the role played by baryon and lepton numbers and their discrete
subgroups in determining the low energy effective theory relevant for TeV
physics.

Withdrawn by arXiv administration because the text and equations were
plagiarized from chapter 13 of the BaBar Physics Book
http://www.slac.stanford.edu/pubs/slacreports/slac-r-504.html
  See also hep-ph/0304045

A short review is given of QCD spin physics and its major aims: obtaining the
polarized gluon density, the transversity distribution and understanding single
spin asymmetries. The importance of the Drell-Yan process, the role of
electron-positron colliders and the use of polarization to probe other, not
spin specific physics are emphasized.

An overview of DIS 2003 is given with a focus on small-x physics and the
interrelationship between deep inelastic scattering and heavy ion physics which
furnishes much of the basic information for understanding high-density QCD
matter. In addition to small-x physics, topics covered include single spin
asymmeteries, light-cone gauge choices, strange quarks in the proton and
non-global observables in jet decays.

We draw attention on the procedure, where Standard Model predictions and
experimental results are compared and certain new physics scenarios are ruled
out, that requires great attention, since there is still a room for new
physics, especially when contributions of extended models bear complex phases.
We observe that this is true even when SM and experiment yield the same results
with zero uncertainties.

This presentation includes an introductory discussion of the unification of
fundamental forces, properties of the elementary particles, Quantum
Electrodynamics, the transition from Quantum Electrodynamics and Weak
Interactions to Electroweak Physics, Radiative Corrections in the Standard
Model of Particle Physics, and some critical unsolved problems.

We give a pedagogical review of flavour and CP violation in the lepton
sector, with a particular emphasis on new physics - and in particular
supersymmetric - contributions to flavour and CP violating observables
involving leptons.

I take a brief look at three frontiers of high-energy physics, illustrating
how important parts of our current thinking evolved from earlier explorations
at preceding frontiers.

We discuss and summarize some aspects concerning the study of the positronium
system to probe new physics beyond the Standard Model.

We review some of the recent developments in QCD spin physics and highlight
the spin program now underway at RHIC.

In this astro-particle lecture course I shall try to emphasize evidence of
the new physics which we have in cosmological and astrophysical data. This
includes support of the inflationary model, necessity of dark energy and of
non-baryonic dark matter, the Grizen-Zatsepin-Kuzmin puzzle of the ultra-high
energy cosmic rays.

We present a concise review of the status of the Standard Model and of the
models of new physics.

In this talk, I address some open problems in hadron physics and stress their
importance for a better understanding of QCD in the confinement regime.

Theoretical activities on the Higgs physics and its implication to physics
beyond the standard model are summarized as the summary report for the Higgs
session in LCWS 2004.

We use exact results in a new approach to quantum gravity to discuss some
issues in black hole physics.

Roles of instantons in strangeness hadron physics are discussed. After
introducing general features of instantons, hadron spectroscopy under the
influence of instanton-quark effective interactions is discussed. Emphases are
on the H dibaryon, spin-orbit splittings of P-wave baryons and baryon-baryon
interactions and spectrum of the pentaquarks.

Recent progress in the theory of B-meson decays is reviewed with emphasis on
the aspects related to the B-factory data.

We review the theoretical and experimental motivations behind recent
proposals to add forward proton tagging detectors to the LHC experiments as a
means to search for new physics.

In this talk I review some topics related to flavor physics in kaon decays
with emphasis on the roles which kaon decays can play in the determinations of
hadronic matrix elements, the CKM parameters and new physics beyond the
Standard Model.

We review recent important progresses at the B factories and discuss the
future prospects. We also comment on how we might proceed to search for new
physics.

Cosmology and high energy physics are two closely connected areas. In this
lecture I present an example of their rich interplay.

Various aspects of physics beyond the Standard Model are discussed from the
perspective of the fantastic phenomenological success of the Standard Model,
its simplicity and predictive power

The status of the new standard model is briefly surveyed, with emphasis on
experimental tests, unique features, theoretical problems, necessary
extensions, and possible TeV signatures of Planck scale physics.

An elementary review of models and phenomenology for physics beyond the
Standard Model (excluding supersymmetry). The emphasis is on LHC physics. Based
upon a talk given at the Physics at LHC conference, Vienna, 13-17 July 2004.

This is a composite based on talks at Physics at LHC, Vienna, July 2004,
TeV4LHC, Fermilab, Sept. 2004, and the String Phenomenology meeting, Perimeter
Institute, March 2005.

The capabilities of the CMS detector are shown and its Heavy Ion program is
outlined.

These are the commentaries for a volume of reprints of my selected papers
with commentaries that I am preparing for publication by World Scientific.
  Contents: Preface; (1)Early Years, and Condensed Matter Physics; (2) High
Energy Neutrino Reactions, PCAC Relations, and Sum Rules; (3) Anomalies: Chiral
Anomalies and Their Nonrenormalization, Perturbative Corrections to Scaling,
and Trace Anomalies to All Orders; (4) Quantum Electrodynamics; (5) Particle
Phenomenology and Neutral Currents; (6) Gravitation; (7) Non-Abelian Monopoles,
Confinement Models, and Chiral Symmetry Breaking; (8) Overrelaxation for
Monte-Carlo and Other Algorithms; (9) Quaternionic Quantum Mechanics, Trace
Dynamics, and Emergent Quantum Theory; (10) Where Next?

Searching for the fundamental symmetries that characterize the particle
physics of the early universe lies at the forefront of particle physics,
nuclear physics, and cosmology. In this talk, I review low energy probes of
these symmetries and discuss what they may teach us about what lies beyond the
fundamental symmetries of the Standard Model.

The WMAP results on the scalar spectral index n and its running with scale,
though preliminary, open a very interesting window to physics at very high
energies. We address the problem of finding simple inflaton potentials well
motivated by particle physics which can accommodate WMAP data.

I give a pedagogical introduction to the concepts and the tools that are
necessary to study particle physics models in higher dimensions. I then give a
more detailed presentation of warped compactifications and discuss their
possible relevance to the hierarchy problem.

We review recent experimental and theoretical progress in spin physics, as
presented in the spin parallel session of DIS2006. In particular, we discuss
the status of the nucleon spin structure, transverse polarized asymmetries, and
recent developments such as DVCS, polarized fragmentation and polarized
resummation.

We discuss whether constraints can be placed on new physics from a
hypothetical Fermilab to Hyper-Kamiokande neutrino oscillation experiment.

We give a brief overview of the problem of quark confinement in hadronic
physics, and outline a few of the suggested explanations of the confining
force.

A simple extension of the Standard Model demonstrates that New Physics
non-reachable through direct production at LHC can induce up to 10% corrections
to the length of the unitarity triangle side, extracted from $\Delta m_{B_d}$.

I review recent theoretical advances in heavy hadron spectroscopy.

The SM unitarity triangle (UT) is completely determined by the parameters
$\gamma$ and $|V_{ub}|$ which can be extracted from tree-level processes and
are assumed to be free of new physics. By comparison with other determinations
of UT parameters one can impose constraints on new physics in loop processes,
in particular $B$ mixing.

Global-symmetry violating higher-dimension operators, expected to be induced
by Planck-scale physics, in general drastically alter the properties of the
axion field associated with the Peccei-Quinn solution to the strong-CP problem,
and render this solution unnatural. The particle physics and cosmology
associated with other global symmetries can also be significantly changed.

We present a review of some of the recent developments in the study of the
$W_3$ string. One of the interesting features of the theory is that the
physical spectrum includes states with non-standard ghost structure, such as
excitations of the ghost fields, both for discrete-momentum and
continuous-momentum states. (Contribution to the Proceedings of the 16'th Johns
Hopkins Workshop on Current Problems in Particle Physics, Gothenburg, Sweden,
June 1992)

N=2 supersymmetric WZNW models associated with finite-dimensional Manin
triples is considered. Physical states in topological phase of these models are
computed and them N=2 WZNW representatives are constracted. Ring structure of
the physical states is computed.

We give a unified derivation of the propagator in the gauges $n.A=0$ for
$n^2$ timelike, spacelike or lightlike. We discuss the physical states and
other physical questions.

Recent development in noncommutative geometry generalization of gauge theory
is reviewed. The mathematical apparatus is reduced to minimum in order to allow
the non-mathematically oriented physicists to follow the development in the
interesting field of research. (Lectures presented at the Silesian School of
Theoretical Physics: Standard Model and Beyond'93, Szczyrk (Poland), September
1993.)

Yokoyama's gaugeon formalism is knwon to admit $q$-number gauge
transformation. We introduce BRST symmetries into the formalism for the
Yang-Mills gauge field. Owing to the BRST symmetry, Yokoyama's physical
subsidiary conditions are replaced by a single condition of the Kugo-Ojima
type. Our physical subsidiary condition is invariant under the $q$-number gauge
transformation. Thus, our physical subspace is gauge invariant.

Short introduction to exotic differential structures on manifolds is given.
The possible physical context of this mathematical curiosity is discussed. The
topic is very interesting although speculative.

We present results of investigation into a problem of cubic interaction
vertices of massless higher spin fields which transform in arbitrary irreps of
the Poincare algebra

This is an introductory survey of the theory of $p$-form conservation laws in
field theory. It is based upon a series of lectures given at the Second Mexican
School on Gravitation and Mathematical Physics held in Tlaxcala, Mexico from
December 1--7, 1996. Proceedings available online at
http://kaluza.physik.uni-konstanz.de/2MS/ProcMain.html.

A simple, non-technical introduction to the pre-big bang scenario is given,
emphasizing physical motivations, considerations, and consequences over
formalism.

It was shown by Connes, Douglas, Schwarz[1] that one can compactify M(atrix)
theory on noncommutative torus. We prove that compactifications on Morita
equivalent tori are physically equivalent. This statement can be considered as
a generalization of non-classical duality conjectured in [1] for
two-dimensional tori.

A redesigned starting point for covariant \phi^4_n, n\ge 4, models is
suggested that takes the form of an alternative lattice action and which may
have the virtue of leading to a nontrivial quantum field theory in the
continuum limit. The lack of conventional scattering for such theories is
understood through an interchange of limits.

The velocity basis of the Poincare group is used in the direct product space
of two irreducible unitary representations of the Poincare group. The velocity
basis with total angular momentum j will be used for the definition of
relativistic Gamow vectors.

We derive a generalized Skyrme-Faddeev action as the effective action of QCD
in the low energy limit. Our result demonstrates the existence of a mass gap in
QCD which triggers the confinement of color.

A universal disentangling formula (such as the Baker-Campbell-Hausdorff one)
for coherent states of Perelomov's type ($ |z \ra = \exp (z\Adag -\bar{z}A) |0
\ra $) which are defined for generalized oscillator algebras is given.

A discrete field formalism exposes the physical meaning and origins of gauge
fields, their symmetries and singularities. They represent a lack of a stricter
field-source coherence.

In this comment we discuss some serious inconsistencies presented by Gomes,
Malacarne and da Silva in their paper, Phys.Rev. D60 (1999) 125016
(hep-th/9908181).

We review the construction of minimally bosonized supersymmetric quantum
mechanics and its relation to hidden supersymmetries in pure parabosonic
(parafermionic) systems.

A description of generalized coherent states and geometric phases in the
light of the general theory of smooth loops is given.

I briefly describe two motivations, two mechanisms and two possible tests of
the hypothesis that the physical parameters of the ground state of a theory can
vary in different regions of the universe.

Abelian and nonabelian gauge invariant states are directly compared to
revisit how the unconfined abelian theory is expressed. It is argued that the
Yang-Mills equations have no obvious physical content apart from their relation
to underlying physical states. The main observation is that the physical states
of electrostatics can be regarded as point charges connected by a uniform
superposition of all possible Faraday lines. These states are gauge invariant
only in the abelian case.

This is a summary of progress made in understanding the occurrence and
properties of local, conserved, commuting charges in non-linear sigma-models,
including principal chiral models (PCMs) and WZW models. (Contribution to the
NATO-ASI meeting: Integrable Hierarchies and Modern Physical Theories,
University of Illinois at Chicago, July 2000.)

We give infinite dimensional and finite dimensional examples of $F-$fold Lie
superalgebras. The finite dimensional examples are obtained by an inductive
procedure from Lie algebras and Lie superalgebras.

A low energy bound in a class of chiral solitonic field theories related the
infrared physics of the SU(N) Yang-Mills theory is established.

We present a method, based on loop equations, to compute recursively all the
terms in the large $N$ topological expansion of the free energy for the
2-hermitian matrix model. We illustrate the method by computing the first
subleading term, i.e. the free energy of a statistical physics model on a
discretized torus.

The symmetries of the simplest non-abelian Toda equations are discussed. The
set of characteristic integrals whose Hamiltonian counterparts form a
W-algebra, is presented.

A number of physical systems exhibit a particular form of asymptotic
conformal invariance: within a particular range of distances, they are
characterized by a long-range conformal interaction (inverse square potential),
the absence of dimensional scales, and an SO(2,1) symmetry algebra. Examples
from molecular physics to black holes are provided and discussed within a
unified treatment. When such systems are physically realized in the appropriate
strong-coupling regime,the occurrence of quantum symmetry breaking is possible.
This anomaly is revealed by the failure of the symmetry generators to close the
algebra in a manner shown to be independent of the renormalization procedure.

A calculation by E.D. Jones of the cosmological mass scale for the phase
transition from pre-geometric to physical description as about 5 Tev could be
interpreted as a prediction of an effective threshold for novel physical
effects in particle-particle collisions.

In the recent years, Hopf algebras have been introduced to describe certain
combinatorial properties of quantum field theories. I will give a basic
introduction to these algebras and review some occurrences in particle physics.

A four dimensional non-trivial extension of the Poincar\'e algebra different
from supersymmetry is explicitly studied. Representation theory is investigated
and an invariant Lagrangian is exhibited. Some discussion on the Noether
theorem is also given.

We study the physical Fock space of the tensionless string theory with
perimeter action which has pure massless spectrum. The states are classified by
the Wigner's little group for massless particles. The ground state contains
infinite many massless fields of fixed helicity, the excitation levels realize
CSR representations. We demonstrate that the first and the second excitation
levels are physical null states.

The Dirac monopole problem is studied in details within the framework of
infinite-dimensional representations of the rotation group, and a consistent
pointlike monopole theory with an arbitrary magnetic charge is deduced.

Prepared for the Quantum Field Theory section of the Encyclopedia of
Mathematical Physics, Elsevier, 2006. A brief introduction to the methodology
and techniques of perturbative relativistic quantum field theory is presented.

We solve the Klein-Gordon equation in the presence of a spatially
one-dimensional cusp potential. The bound state solutions are derived and the
antiparticle bound state is discussed.

In this article, we carry out the Hamiltonization in the axial gauge, of the
t'Hooft-Polyakov monopole field outside the localized region, which represents
the monopole's core. One feature of the treatment here, is using the Higgs
vacuum condition as both strong and weak equation instead of using it in the
degree of freedom reduction.

Schwinger's mechanism for mass generation relies on topological structures of
a 2-dimensional gauge theory. In the same manner, corresponding 4-dimensional
topological entities give rise to topological mass generation in four
dimensions.

A generalized gauge fixing which interpolates among the Landau, Coulomb and
maximal Abelian gauges is constructed.

After a brief review of p-adic numbers, adeles and their functions, we
consider real, p-adic and adelic superalgebras, superspaces and superanalyses.
A concrete illustration is given by means of the Grassmann algebra generated by
two anticommuting elements.

In this paper we show how Feynman diagrams, which are used as a tool to
implement perturbation theory in quantum field theory, can be very useful also
in classical mechanics, provided we introduce also at the classical level
concepts like path integrals and generating functionals.

A systematic study of non-trivial cubic extensions of the four-dimensional
Poincar\'e algebra is undertaken. Explicit examples are given with various
techniques (Young tableau, characters etc).

Lorentz invariance is broken for the non-Abelian monopoles. Here we will
consider the case of 't Hooft-Polyakov monopole and show that the Lorentz
invariance of its field will be restored using Dirac quantization.

Our rigorous path integrals costruction for the evolution operators is
extended to metric-affine manifolds.

These notes contain a survey of some aspects of the theory of graded
differential algebras and of noncommutative differential calculi as well as of
some applications connected with physics. They also give a description of
several new developments.

We enlarge the hom-sets of categories of complete lattices by introducing
`state transitions' as generalized morphisms. The obtained category will then
be compared with a functorial quantaloidal enrichment and a contextual
quantaloidal enrichment that uses a specific concretization in the category of
sets and partially defined maps ($Parset$).

The purpose of this paper is to give, on one hand, a mathematical exposition
of the main topological and geometrical properties of geometric transitions, on
the other hand, a quick outline of their principal applications, both in
mathematics and in physics.

This is an overview article on the Kontsevich integral written for the
Encyclopedia of Mathematical Physics, to be published by Elsevier.

Spinor fields depending on tensor fields and other spinor fields are
considered. The concept of extended spinor fields is introduced and the theory
of differentiation for such fields is developed.

Some aspects of Dirac spinors are resumed and studied in order to interpret
mathematically the P and T operations in a gravitational field.

We develop number theoretic tools that allow to perform computations relevant
for the quantum mechanics over finite fields of arbitrary, odd size, with the
same speedup that is enjoyed by the Fast Fourier Transform.

We describe a new algebraic multisymplectic formulation of the classical BRST
symmetry. The analogue of Marsden-Weinstein reduction for multisymplectic
manifolds is described. We then give a homological description of
Multisymplectic Marsden-Weinstein reduction.

In the comment to the article by J.Baez and K.Krasnov (hep-th/9703112) are
discussed some topics related with application of certain constructions to
non-trivial principal bundles.

Using geometric quantization procedure, the quantization of algebra of
observables for physical system with Ricci-flat phase space is obtained. In the
classical case the appointed physical system is reduced to harmonic oscillator
when the one real parameter is vanished.

Apparently new expressions are given for the exponential of a hermitian
matrix,A, in the 2x2,3x3,and 4x4 cases. Replacing A by iA these are explicit
formulas for the Fourier transform of exp(iA).

The nature of the interaction of a soliton with an attractive well is
elucidated using a model of two interacting point particles. The system shows
the existence of trapped states at positive kinetic energy, as well as
reflection by an attractive impurity, as found when a topological soliton
scatters off an attractive well.

Wave functions and energies are constructed in a short-range Poeschl-Teller
well (= negative quadratic secans hyperbolicus) with a quartic perturbation.
Within the framework of an innovated, Lanczos-inspired perturbation theory we
show that our choice of non-orthogonal basis makes all the corrections given by
closed formulae. The first few items are then generated using MAPLE.

A so-called Renormalization Group (RG) analysis is performed in order to shed
some light on why the density of prime numbers in $\Bbb N^*$ decreases like the
single power of the inverse neperian logarithm.

p-Adic generalization of the Feynman path integrals in quantum mechanics is
considered. The probability amplitude for a particle in a constant field is
calculated. Path integrals over p-adic space have the same form as those over
R.

The Feynman path integral in p-adic quantum mechanics is considered. The
probability amplitude
  ${\cal K}_p (x^{\prime\prime},t^{\prime\prime}; x^\prime,t^\prime)$
  for one-dimensional systems with quadratic actions is calculated in an exact
form, which is the same as that in ordinary quantum mechanics.

In this work we discuss possible definitions of the mean value of the energy
for a resonant (Gamow) state. The mathematical and physical aspects of the
formalism are reviewed. The concept of rigged Hilbert space is used as a
supportive tool in dealing with Gamow-resonances.

The relations and differences between various classification problems arising
in the context of local two-dimensional conformal QFT, modular invariants, and
subfactors are discussed. The extent to which locality implies modular
invariance, is exhibited.

We show that non-relativistic and relativistic mechanical systems on a
configuration space Q can be seen as the conservative Dirac constraint systems
with zero Hamiltonians on different subbundles of the same cotangent bundle
T^*Q. The geometric quantization of this cotangent bundle under the vertical
polarization leads to compatible covariant quantizations of non-relativistic
and relativistic Hamiltonian mechanics.

This paper has been superseded by math-ph/0102032, "Bures geometry of the
three-level quantum systems. II".

New examples of noncommutative 4-spheres are introduced.

These notes hopefully provide an aid to the comprehension of the
Connes-Moscovici and Connes-Kreimer works, by isolating common mathematical
features of the Connes-Moscovici, rooted trees, and Feynman-graph Hopf algebras
(as a new special branch of the theory of Hopf algebras expected to become
important). We discuss in particular the dual Milnor-Moore situation.

In this paper is discussed description of some algebraic structures in
quantum theory by using formal recursive constructions with "complex Poincar\'e
group" ISO(4,C).

We give a necessary and sufficient condition for the reality of the spectrum
of a non-Hermitian Hamiltonian admitting a complete set of biorthonormal
eigenvectors.

We prove Cwikel-Lieb-Rosenbljum and Lieb-Thirring type bounds on the discrete
spectrum of a two-body pair operator and calculate spectral asymptotics for the
eigenvalue moments and the local spectral density in the pseudo-relativistic
limit.

A problem posed in a remark by Pauli is discussed: is it possible to recover
the state vector of a quantum system from the distribution functions of the
physical observables of this system ?

We outline a cohomological treatment for multivalued (classical) action
functionals. We point out that an application of Takens' theorem, after
Zuckerman, Deligne and Freed, allows to conclude that multivalued functionals
yield globally defined variational equations.

We clarify the relation between canonical and metric energy-momentum tensors.
In particular, we show that a natural definition arises from Noether's Theorem
which directly leads to a symmetric and gauge invariant tensor for
electromagnetic field theories on an arbitrary space-time of any dimension.

Potential algebras are extended from Hermitian to non-Hermitian Hamiltonians
and shown to provide an elegant method for studying the transition from real to
complex eigenvalues for a class of non-Hermitian Hamiltonians associated with
the complex Lie algebra A$_1$.

The ``Kaluza-Klein-type'' geometric structure appropriate to study the
central extension of the Galilei group and non-relativistic physics is
reviewed.

A suitable parameterization of space-time in terms of one complex and three
quaternionic imaginary units allows Lorentz transformations to be implemented
as multiplication by complex-quaternionic numbers rather than matrices.
Maxwell's equations reduce to a single equation.

According to Eugene Wigner, quantum mechanics is a physics of Fourier
transformations, and special relativity is a physics of Lorentz
transformations. Since two-by-two matrices with unit determinant form the group
SL(2,c) which acts as the universal covering group of the Lorentz group, the
two-by-two matrices constitute the natural language for special relativity. The
central language for optical instruments is the two-by-two matrix called the
beam transfer matrix, or the so-called ABCD matrix. It is shown that the ABCD
matrices also form the SL(2,C) group. Thus, it is possible to perform
experiments in special relativity using optical instruments. Likewise, the
optical instruments can be explained in terms of the symmetry of relativistic
particles.

In the work it has been shown that there are two types of the conservation
laws.
  1. The conservation laws that can be called exact ones. They point to an
avalability of some conservative quantities or objects. Such objects are the
physical structures, which the physical fields and relevant manifolds are
constructed of. These are conservation laws for physical fields.
  2. The conservation laws of energy, linear and angular momentum, and mass.
These laws are conservation laws for material systems (material media). They
establish a balance between changes of physical quantities and external
actions. Such conservation laws can be called as balance ones. It has been
shown that the exact and balance conservation laws execute a relation between
the physical structures, which form physical fields, and material systems. The
physical structures, to which the exact conservation laws correspond, are
generated by material systems in the evolutionary processes, whose moving force
is the noncommutativity of the balance conservation laws. These results are
obtained with the help of the mathematical apparatus of skew-symmetric
differential forms.

In this article we show that Einstein covariance principle provides a wide
opportunity in the solutions of different problems of theoretical physics. Here
we apply covariance principle in some problems of classical electrodynamics and
kinetics. Extension of this approach in the other fields is obvious.

We apply inverse scattering theory to calculate the functional derivative of
the potential $V(x)$ and wave function $\psi(x,k)$ of a one-dimensional
Schr\"odinger operator with respect to the reflection amplitude $r(k)$.

Identities involving cyclic sums of terms composed from Jacobi elliptic
functions evaluated at $p$ equally shifted points were recently found. The
purpose of this paper is to re-express these cyclic identities in terms of
ratios of Jacobi theta functions, since many physicists prefer using Jacobi
theta functions rather than Jacobi elliptic functions.

Lecture notes given at the summer school ``Applications of random matrices to
physics", Les Houches, June 2004.

We consider Hamiltonian with $N$ point interactions in $\R^d, d=2,3,$ all
with the same coupling constant, placed at vertices of an equilateral polygon
$\PP_N$. It is shown that the ground state energy is locally maximized by a
regular polygon. The question whether the maximum is global is reduced to an
interesting geometric problem.

We consider a system of partial differential equations, of interest to plasma
physics, and provide all its Lie point symmetries, with their respective
invariant solutions. We also discuss some of its conditional and partial
symmetries. We finally show that, although the system can be cast in divergence
form and admits conserved currents, it does not admit potential symmetries.

We provide a short introduction to the main features of the algebraic
approach to quantum field theories.

In this short lecture, we compute asymptotics of orthogonal polynomials, from
a saddle point approximation. This is an example of a calculation which shows
the link between integrability, algebraic geometry and random matrices.

We give a simple parametrization of the $G_2$ group, which is consistent with
the structure of $G_2$ as a SU(3) fibration. We also explicitly compute the
(bi)invariant measure, which turns out to have a simple expression.

In complete analogy with the classical situation (which is briefly reviewed)
it is possible to define bi-Hamiltonian descriptions for Quantum systems. We
also analyze compatible Hermitian structures in full analogy with compatible
Poisson structures.

By exploiting a recently developed connection between Heun's differential
equation and the generalized associated Lam\'e equation, we not only recover
the well known periodic solutions, but also obtain a large class of new,
quasi-periodic solutions of Heun's equation. Each of the quasi-periodic
solutions is doubly degenerate.

Contribution to the Encyclopedia of Mathematical Physics (Elsevier, 2006): a
brief and (hopefully) pedagogical introduction to quantum field theory models
describing particles in external fields is presented. Following the
instructions, the only references are a few recommendations for further reading
in the first and last sections.

The paper proposes a 4-dimensional generalization of the Hamilton equations
of motion to the case of the Minkowski space-time. The approach can be applied
to quantum as well as to classical, non-relativistic as well as relativistic
problems.

Problems posed by semirelativistic Hamiltonians of the form
  H = sqrt{m^2+p^2} + V(r) are studied. It is shown that energy upper bounds
can be constructed in terms of certain related Schroedinger operators; these
bounds include free parameters which can be chosen optimally.

Talk given at Symposium in Honor of Julius Wess on the Occasion of his 70th
Birthday, 10-11 January 2005 at Max Planck Institute for Physics (Werner
Heisenberg Institut) Fohringer Ring 6 - D-80805 MUENCHEN

Exact expressions for three-dimensional potential and force yield due to
uniform singularity distributed on a finite at rectangular surface have been
presented. The expressions, valid throughout the physical domain, have been
found to be consistent with other expressions available as special cases of the
same problem. Very accurate estimates of the capacitance of a unit square plate
and a unit cube have been made using them.

Properties of the Jacobi Theta3-function and its derivatives under discrete
Fourier transforms are investigated, and several interesting results are
obtained. The role of modulo N equivalence classes in the theory of
Theta-functions is stressed. An important conjecture is studied.

We introduce a very simple, exactly solvable PT-symmetric non-Hermitian model
with real spectrum, and derive a closed formula for the metric operator which
relates the problem to a Hermitian one.

Some elementary rigorous remark about the replica formalism in the
Statistical Physics' approach to threshold phenomena in Computational
Complexity Theory is presented.

I adapt a recently introduced method for integrating over the unitary group
(S. Aubert and C.S. Lam, J.Math.Phys. 44, 6112-6131 (2003)) to the orthogonal
group. I derive explicit formulas for a number of one, two and three-vector
integrals, as well as recursion formulas for more complicated cases.

We investigated an integral representation of a complex function which was
obtained from the molecular beam magnetic resonance, and named it as `$g$-
function' because it was connected with Gamma function as a special case. We
introduced a physical example of the $g$-function from a dipole-dipole
interaction of rigid polar molecules.

This is a pedagogical exposition of holonomy groups intended for physicists.
After some pertinent definitions, we focus on special holonomy manifolds, two
per division algebras, and comment upon several cases of interest in physics,
associated with compactification from F-, M- and string theory, on manifolds of
8, 7 and 6 dimensions respectively.

The theorem by Gell-Mann and Low is a cornerstone in QFT and zero-temperature
many-body theory. The standard proof is based on Dyson's time-ordered expansion
of the propagator; a proof based on exact identities for the time-propagator is
here given.

We prove spectral and dynamical localization on a cubic-lattice quantum graph
with a random potential. We use multiscale analysis and show how to obtain the
necessary estimates in analogy to the well-studied case of random Schroedinger
operators.

Three types of equations of mathematical physics, namely, the equations,
which describe any physical processes, the equations of mechanics and physics
of continuous media, and field-theory equations are studied in this paper.
  In the first and second case the investigation is reduced to the analysis of
the nonidentical relations of the skew-symmetric differential forms that are
obtained from differential equations. It is shown that the integrability of
equations and the properties of their solutions depend on the realization of
the conditions of degenerate transformations under which the identical
relations are obtained from the nonidentical relation.
  The field-theory equations, in contrast to the equations of first two types,
are the relations made up by skew-symmetric differential forms or their analogs
(differential or integral ones). This is due to the fact that the field-theory
equations have to describe physical structures (to which closed exterior forms
correspond) rather than physical quantities. The equations that correspond to
field theories are obtained from the equations that describe the conservation
laws (of energy, linear momentum, angular momentum, and mass) of material
systems (of continuous media). This disclose a connection between field
theories and the equations for material systems (and points to that material
media generate physical fields).

The COSY accelerator in J\'ulich is presented together with its internal and
external detectors. The physics programme performed recently is discussed with
emphasis on strangeness physics.

Physics perspectives with(di)lepton measurements with the ALICE detector at
the LHC are reviewed. Special emphasis is placed on heavy flavor physics.

