We show a representation of Quantum Computers defines Quantum Turing Machines
with associated Quantum Grammars. We then create examples of Quantum Grammars.
Lastly we develop an algebraic approach to high level Quantum Languages using
Quantum Assembly language and Quantum C language as examples.

Understanding Quantum Technologies 2023 is a creative-commons ebook that
provides a unique 360 degrees overview of quantum technologies from science and
technology to geopolitical and societal issues. It covers quantum physics
history, quantum physics 101, gate-based quantum computing, quantum computing
engineering (including quantum error corrections and quantum computing
energetics), quantum computing hardware (all qubit types, including quantum
annealing and quantum simulation paradigms, history, science, research,
implementation and vendors), quantum enabling technologies (cryogenics, control
electronics, photonics, components fabs, raw materials), unconventional
computing (potential alternatives to quantum and classical computing), quantum
telecommunications and cryptography, quantum sensing, quantum computing
algorithms, software development tools and use cases, quantum technologies
around the world, quantum technologies societal impact and even quantum fake
sciences. The main audience are computer science engineers, developers and IT
specialists as well as quantum scientists and students who want to acquire a
global view of how quantum technologies work, and particularly quantum
computing. This version is an update to the 2022 and 2021 editions published
respectively in October 2022 and October 2021. An update log is provided at the
end of the book.

Quantum protocols often require the generation of specific quantum states. We
describe a quantum algorithm for generating any prescribed quantum state. For
an important subclass of states, including pure symmetric states, this
algorithm is efficient.

This article surveys quantum computational complexity, with a focus on three
fundamental notions: polynomial-time quantum computations, the efficient
verification of quantum proofs, and quantum interactive proof systems.
Properties of quantum complexity classes based on these notions, such as BQP,
QMA, and QIP, are presented. Other topics in quantum complexity, including
quantum advice, space-bounded quantum computation, and bounded-depth quantum
circuits, are also discussed.

We interpret quantum computing as a geometric evolution process by
reformulating finite quantum systems via Connes' noncommutative geometry. In
this formulation, quantum states are represented as noncommutative connections,
while gauge transformations on the connections play a role of unitary quantum
operations. Thereby, a geometrical model for quantum computation is presented,
which is equivalent to the quantum circuit model. This result shows a geometric
way of realizing quantum computing and as such, provides an alternative
proposal of building a quantum computer.

Quantum amplitude amplification and quantum phase estimation are two
fundamental quantum algorithms. All known quantum algorithms are derived from
these two algorithms. Even the adiabatic quantum algorithms can also be
efficiently simulated using quantum phase estimation. We present a universal
quantum algorithm which explains these two algorithms as special cases. An
interesting result is that we do not need quantum fourier transform to do
quantum phase estimation.

We study the algebraic aspects of (small) quantum equivariant $K$-theory of
flag manifold. Lascoux-Sch\"utzenberger's type formula for quantum double and
quantum double dual Grothendieck polynomials and the quantum Cauchy identity
for quantum Grothendieck polynomials are obtained.

We discuss the recently proposed quantum action - its interpretation, its
motivation, its mathematical properties and its use in physics: quantum
mechanical tunneling, quantum instantons and quantum chaos.

We discuss foundation of quantum mechanics (interpretations, superposition,
principle of complementarity, locality, hidden variables) and quantum
information theory.

We give a short overview over recent developments on quantum graphs and
outline the connection between general quantum graphs and so-called quantum
random walks.

Metamaterials are artificially engineered periodic structures with
exceptional optical properties that are not found in conventional materials.
However, this definition of metamaterials can be extended if we introduce a
quantum degree of freedom by adding some quantum elements (e.g quantum dots,
cold atoms, Josephson junctions, molecules). Quantum metamaterials can then be
defined as artificially engineered nanostructures made up of quantum elements.
Furthermore, they exhibit controllable quantum states, maintain quantum
coherence for times much higher than the transversal time of the
electromagnetic signal. Metamaterials have been used to realised invisibility
cloaking, super-resolution, energy harvesting, and sensing. Most of these
applications are performed in the classical regime. Of recent, metamaterials
have gradually found their way into the quantum regime, particularly to quantum
sensing and quantum information processing. The use of quantum metamaterials
for quantum information processing is still new and rapidly growing. In quantum
information processing, quantum metamaterials have enabled the control and
manipulation of quantum states, single photon generation, creating quantum
entanglement, quantum states switching, quantum search algorithm, quantum state
engineering tasks, and many more. In this work, we briefly review the theory,
fabrication and applications of quantum metamaterials to quantum information
processing.

Classical random walk formalism shows a significant role across a wide range
of applications. As its quantum counterpart, the quantum walk is proposed as an
important theoretical model for quantum computing. By exploiting the quantum
effects such as superposition, interference and entanglement, quantum walks and
their variety have been extensively studied for achieving beyond classical
computing power, and they have been broadly used in designing quantum
algorithms in fields ranging from algebraic and optimization problems, graph
and network analysis, to quantum Hamiltonian and biochemical process
simulations, and even further quantum walk models have proven their
capabilities for universal quantum computation. Compared to the conventional
quantum circuit models, quantum walks show a feasible path for implementing
application-specific quantum computing in particularly the noisy
intermediate-scale quantum era. Recently remarkable progress has been achieved
in implementing a wide variety of quantum walks and quantum walk applications,
demonstrating the great potential of quantum walks. In this review, we provide
a thorough summary of quantum walks and quantum walk computing, including
aspects of quantum walk theories and characteristics, advances in their
physical implementations and the flourishingly developed quantum walk computing
applications. We also discuss the challenges facing quantum walk computing,
toward realizing a practical quantum computer in the near future.

We have unified quantum and classical computing in open quantum systems
called qACP which is a quantum generalization of process algebra ACP. But, an
axiomatization for quantum and classical processes with an assumption of closed
quantum systems is still missing. For closed quantum systems, unitary operator,
quantum measurement and quantum entanglement are three basic components for
quantum computing. This leads to probability unavoidable. Along the solution of
qACP to unify quantum and classical computing in open quantum systems, we unify
quantum and classical computing with an assumption of closed systems under the
framework of ACP-like probabilistic process algebra. This unification make it
can be used widely in verification for quantum and classical computing mixed
systems, such as most quantum communication protocols.

Quantum computation and quantum information are of great current interest in
computer science, mathematics, physical sciences and engineering. They will
likely lead to a new wave of technological innovations in communication,
computation and cryptography. As the theory of quantum physics is fundamentally
stochastic, randomness and uncertainty are deeply rooted in quantum
computation, quantum simulation and quantum information. Consequently quantum
algorithms are random in nature, and quantum simulation utilizes Monte Carlo
techniques extensively. Thus statistics can play an important role in quantum
computation and quantum simulation, which in turn offer great potential to
revolutionize computational statistics. While only pseudo-random numbers can be
generated by classical computers, quantum computers are able to produce genuine
random numbers; quantum computers can exponentially or quadratically speed up
median evaluation, Monte Carlo integration and Markov chain simulation. This
paper gives a brief review on quantum computation, quantum simulation and
quantum information. We introduce the basic concepts of quantum computation and
quantum simulation and present quantum algorithms that are known to be much
faster than the available classic algorithms. We provide a statistical
framework for the analysis of quantum algorithms and quantum simulation.

Quantum cybernetics and its connections to complex quantum systems science is
addressed from the perspective of complex quantum computing systems. In this
way, the notion of an autonomous quantum computing system is introduced in
regards to quantum artificial intelligence, and applied to quantum artificial
neural networks, considered as autonomous quantum computing systems, which
leads to a quantum connectionist framework within quantum cybernetics for
complex quantum computing systems. Several examples of quantum feedforward
neural networks are addressed in regards to Boolean functions' computation,
multilayer quantum computation dynamics, entanglement and quantum
complementarity. The examples provide a framework for a reflection on the role
of quantum artificial neural networks as a general framework for addressing
complex quantum systems that perform network-based quantum computation,
possible consequences are drawn regarding quantum technologies, as well as
fundamental research in complex quantum systems science and quantum biology.

Quantum measurement is a class of quantum channels that sends quantum states
to classical states. We set up resource theories of quantum coherence and
quantum entanglement for quantum measurements and find relations between them.
For this, we conceive a relative entropy type quantity to account for the
quantum resources of quantum measurements. The quantum coherence of a quantum
measurement can be converted into the entanglement in a bipartite quantum
measurement through coherence-non generating transformations. Conversely, a
quantum entanglement monotone of quantum measurements induces a quantum
coherence monotone of quantum measurement. Our results confirm that the
understanding on the link between quantum coherence and quantum entanglement is
valid even for quantum measurements which do not generate any quantum resource.

We show that certain embeddable homogeneous spaces of a quantum group that do
not correspond to a quantum subgroup still have the structure of quantum
quotient spaces. We propose a construction of quantum fibre bundles on such
spaces. The quantum plane and the general quantum two-spheres are discussed in
detail.

A famous open problem in the theory of quantum error-correcting codes is
whether or not the parameters of an impure quantum code can violate the quantum
Hamming bound for pure quantum codes. We partially solve this problem. We
demonstrate that there exists a threshold such that an arbitrary quantum code
must obey the quantum Hamming bound whenever . We list some values of for small
d and binary quantum codes.

We clarify the correspondence between the two approaches to quantum graphs:
via quantum adjacency matrices and via quantum relations. We show how the
choice of a (possibly non-tracial) weight manifests itself on the quantum
relation side and suggest an extension of the theory of quantum graphs to the
infinite dimensional case. Then we use this framework to introduce quantum
graphs associated to discrete quantum groups, leading to a new definition of a
quantum Cayley graph.

Quantum coherence is a fundamental common trait of quantum phenomena, from
the interference of matter waves to quantum degeneracy of identical particles.
Despite its importance, estimating and measuring quantum coherence in generic,
mixed many-body quantum states remains a formidable challenge, with fundamental
implications in areas as broad as quantum condensed matter, quantum
information, quantum metrology and quantum biology. Here we provide a
quantitative definition of the variance of quantum coherent fluctuations (the
quantum variance) of any observable on generic quantum states. The quantum
variance generalizes the concept of thermal de Broglie wavelength (for the
position of a free quantum particle) to the space of eigenvalues of any
observable, quantifying the degree of coherent delocalization in that space.
The quantum variance is generically measurable and computable as the difference
between the static fluctuations and the static susceptibility of the
observable; despite its simplicity, it is found to provide a tight lower bound
to most widely accepted estimators of "quantumness" of observables (both as a
feature as well as a resource), such as the Wigner-Yanase skew information and
the quantum Fisher information. When considering bipartite fluctuations in an
extended quantum system, the quantum variance expresses genuine quantum
correlations (of discord type) among the two parts. In the case of many-body
systems it is found to obey an area law at finite temperature, extending
therefore area laws of entanglement and quantum fluctuations of pure states to
the mixed-state context. Hence the quantum variance paves the way to the
measurement of macroscopic quantum coherence and quantum correlations in most
complex quantum systems.

We introduce the concept of quantum supermap, describing the most general
transformation that maps an input quantum operation into an output quantum
operation. Since quantum operations include as special cases quantum states,
effects, and measurements, quantum supermaps describe all possible
transformations between elementary quantum objects (quantum systems as well as
quantum devices). After giving the axiomatic definition of supermap, we prove a
realization theorem, which shows that any supermap can be physically
implemented as a simple quantum circuit. Applications to quantum programming,
cloning, discrimination, estimation, information-disturbance trade-off, and
tomography of channels are outlined.

One-way quantum deficit and quantum discord are two important measures of
quantum correlations. We revisit the relationship between them in two-qubit
systems. We investigate the conditions that both one-way quantum deficit and
quantum discord have the same optimal measurement ensembles, and demonstrate
that one-way quantum deficit can be derived from the quantum discord for a
class of X states. Moreover, we give an explicit relation between one-way
quantum deficit and entanglement of formation. We show that under phase damping
channel both one-way quantum deficit and quantum discord evolve exactly in the
same way for four parameters X states. Some examples are presented in details.

It has been proven that quantum adders are forbidden by the laws of quantum
mechanics. We analyze theoretical proposals for the implementation of
approximate quantum adders and optimize them by means of genetic algorithms,
improving previous protocols in terms of efficiency and fidelity. Furthermore,
we experimentally realize a suitable approximate quantum adder with the cloud
quantum computing facilities provided by IBM Quantum Experience. The
development of approximate quantum adders enhances the toolbox of quantum
information protocols, paving the way for novel applications in quantum
technologies.

We determine the quantum automorphism groups of finite graphs. These are
quantum subgroups of the quantum permutation groups defined by Wang. The
quantum automorphism group is a stronger invariant for finite graphs than the
usual one. We get a quantum dihedral group D4.

We associate to an algebraic quantum group a C^*-algebraic quantum group and
prove that this C^*-algebraic quantum group satisfies an upcoming definition of
Masuda, Nakagami & Woronowicz.

The accessible information decreases under quantum operations. We analyzed
the connection between quantum operations and accessible information. We show
that a general quantum process cannot be operated accurately. Futhermore, an
unknown state of a closed quantum system can not be operated arbitrarily by a
unitary quantum operation.

The correspondence of a new form of quantum mechanics based on a quantum
version of the action principle, which was proposed earlier [arXiv:0807.3508],
with the ordinary quantum mechanics is established. New potentialities of the
quantum action principle in the interpretation of quantum mechanics are
considered.

In this dissertation, we analyze equilibrium and out-of-equilibrium quantum
phase transitions present in quantum spin-$\frac{1}{2}$ models, using a quantum
information approach through quantum correlations and phase space formalism,
and a quantum thermodynamic approach through the work statistics formalism.

Quantum state can be teleported to a remote site by only local measurement
and classical communication if the prior Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen quantum
channel is available between the sender and the receiver. Those quantum
channels shared by multiple nodes can constitute a quantum network. Yet,
studies on the efficiency of quantum communication between nodes of quantum
networks remain limited, which differs from classical case in that the quantum
channel will be consumed if teleportation is performed. Here, we introduce the
exclusive quantum channels (EQC) as the measure of efficiency of quantum
information transmission. It quantifies the amount of quantum information which
can be teleported between nodes in a quantum network. We show that different
types of EQC are local quantities with effective circles. Significantly,
capacity of quantum communication of quantum networks quantified by EQC is
independent of distance for the communicating nodes. Thus, the quantum network
can be dealt as the isotropic medium where quantum communication is
no-decaying. EQC are studied by both analytical and numerical methods. The EQC
can be enhanced by transformations of lattices of quantum network via
entanglement swapping. Our result opens the avenue in studying the quantum
communication of the quantum networks.

In this paper, we firstly briefly review the duality quantum computer.
Distinctly, the generalized quantum gates, the basic evolution operators in a
duality quantum computer are no longer unitary, and they can be expressed in
terms of linear combinations of unitary operators. All linear bounded operators
can be realized in a duality quantum computer, and unitary operators are just
the extreme points of the set of generalized quantum gates. A d-slits duality
quantum computer can be realized in an ordinary quantum computer with an
additional qudit using the duality quantum computing mode. Duality quantum
computer provides flexibility and clear physical picture in designing quantum
algorithms, serving as a useful bridge between quantum and classical
algorithms. In this review, we will show that duality quantum computer can
simulate quantum systems more efficiently than ordinary quantum computers by
providing descriptions of the recent efficient quantum simulation algorithms of
Childs et al [Quantum Information & Computation, 12(11-12): 901-924 (2012)] for
the fast simulation of quantum systems with a sparse Hamiltonian, and the
quantum simulation algorithm by Berry et al [Phys. Rev. Lett. 114, 090502
(2015)], which provides exponential improvement in precision for simulating
systems with a sparse Hamiltonian.

Quantum machine learning (QML) is the use of quantum computing for the
computation of machine learning algorithms. With the prevalence and importance
of classical data, a hybrid quantum-classical approach to QML is called for.
Parameterized Quantum Circuits (PQCs), and particularly Quantum Kernel PQCs,
are generally used in the hybrid approach to QML. In this paper we discuss some
important aspects of PQCs with quantum kernels including PQCs, quantum kernels,
quantum kernels with quantum advantage, and the trainability of quantum
kernels. We conclude that quantum kernels with hybrid kernel methods, a.k.a.
quantum kernel methods, offer distinct advantages as a hybrid approach to QML.
Not only do they apply to Noisy Intermediate-Scale Quantum (NISQ) devices, but
they also can be used to solve all types of machine learning problems including
regression, classification, clustering, and dimension reduction. Furthermore,
beyond quantum utility, quantum advantage can be attained if the quantum
kernels, i.e., the quantum feature encodings, are classically intractable.

With the advent of interconnected quantum computers, i.e., distributed
quantum computing (DQC), multiple quantum computers can now collaborate via
quantum networks to perform massively complex computational tasks. However, DQC
faces problems sharing quantum information because it cannot be cloned or
duplicated between quantum computers. Thanks to advanced quantum mechanics,
quantum computers can teleport quantum information across quantum networks.
However, challenges to utilizing efficiently quantum resources, e.g., quantum
computers and quantum channels, arise in DQC due to their capabilities and
properties, such as uncertain qubit fidelity and quantum channel noise. In this
paper, we propose a resource allocation scheme for DQC based on stochastic
programming to minimize the total deployment cost for quantum resources.
Essentially, the two-stage stochastic programming model is formulated to handle
the uncertainty of quantum computing demands, computing power, and fidelity in
quantum networks. The performance evaluation demonstrates the effectiveness and
ability of the proposed scheme to balance the utilization of quantum computers
and on-demand quantum computers while minimizing the overall cost of
provisioning under uncertainty.

Quantum routing, the entanglement of an input quantum signal over multiple
output paths, will be an important aspect of future quantum networks.
Implementation of such routing in emerging quantum networks via the noisy
quantum devices currently under development is a distinct possibility. Quantum
error correction, suitable for the arbitrary noisy quantum channels experienced
in the routing process, will be required. In this work, we design a combined
circuit for quantum routing and quantum error correction, and carry out the
first implementation of such a circuit on a noisy real-world quantum device.
Under the assumption of statistical knowledge on the channel, we experimentally
verify the quantum nature of the error-corrected quantum routing by determining
the path-entanglement through quantum state tomography, measuring also its
probability of success. The quantum error correction deployed is identified as
successful in terms of improving the routing. Our experiments validate, for the
first time, that error-corrected quantum routing in near-term noisy
quantum-computing devices is feasible, and our detailed results provide a
quantum-routing benchmark for all near-term quantum hardware.

Quantum information processing and computing tasks can be understood as
quantum networks, comprising quantum states and channels and possible physical
transformations on them. It is hence pertinent to estimate the change in
informational content of quantum processes due to physical transformations they
undergo. The physical transformations of quantum states are described by
quantum channels, while the transformations of quantum channels are described
by quantum superchannels. In this work, we determine fundamental limitations on
how well can the physical transformation on quantum channels be undone or
reversed, which are of crucial interest to design and benchmark quantum
information and computation devices. In particular, we refine the quantum data
processing inequality for quantum channels by strengthening the monotonicity
inequality of quantum relative entropy of quantum channels under the action of
an arbitrary quantum superchannel. We identify a class of quantum
superchannels, which appears to be quantum superchannel analogue of quantum
subunital channels, under the action of which the entropy of an arbitrary
quantum channel is nondecreasing.

Quantum memories are a fundamental of any global-scale quantum Internet,
high-performance quantum networking and near-term quantum computers. A main
problem of quantum memories is the low retrieval efficiency of the quantum
systems from the quantum registers of the quantum memory. Here, we define a
novel quantum memory called high-retrieval-efficiency (HRE) quantum memory for
near-term quantum devices. An HRE quantum memory unit integrates local unitary
operations on its hardware level for the optimization of the readout procedure
and utilizes the advanced techniques of quantum machine learning. We define the
integrated unitary operations of an HRE quantum memory, prove the learning
procedure, and evaluate the achievable output signal-to-noise ratio values. We
prove that the local unitaries of an HRE quantum memory achieve the
optimization of the readout procedure in an unsupervised manner without the use
of any labeled data or training sequences. We show that the readout procedure
of an HRE quantum memory is realized in a completely blind manner without any
information about the input quantum system or about the unknown quantum
operation of the quantum register. We evaluate the retrieval efficiency of an
HRE quantum memory and the output SNR (signal-to-noise ratio). The results are
particularly convenient for gate-model quantum computers and the near-term
quantum devices of the quantum Internet.

The agenda of quantum algorithmic information theory, ordered `top-down,' is
the quantum halting amplitude, followed by the quantum algorithmic information
content, which in turn requires the theory of quantum computation. The
fundamental atoms processed by quantum computation are the quantum bits which
are dealt with in quantum information theory. The theory of quantum computation
will be based upon a model of universal quantum computer whose elementary unit
is a two-port interferometer capable of arbitrary $U(2)$ transformations. Basic
to all these considerations is quantum theory, in particular Hilbert space
quantum mechanics.

This paper discusses fully coherent quantum feedback control, in which the
sensors, controller, and actuators are quantum systems and interact coherently
with the system to be controlled: as a result, the entire feedback loop is
coherent. Unlike conventional semiclassical feedback control of quantum
systems, feedback control by quantum controllers is not stochastic, preserves
the initial state of the controlled system, and can control quantum systems in
ways that are not possible using conventional, incoherent feedback control. In
particular, the target state to which the quantum controller drives the system
can be entangled with another quantum system. This paper investigates quantum
controllers and states necessary and sufficient conditions for a Hamiltonian
quantum system to be observable and controllable by a quantum controller.

We investigate distinguishability (measured by fidelity) of the initial and
the final state of a qubit, which is an object of the so-called nonideal
quantum measurement of the first kind. We show that the fidelity of a nonideal
measurement can be greater than the fidelity of the corresponding ideal
measurement. This result is somewhat counterintuitive, and can be traced back
to the quantum parallelism in quantum operations, in analogy with the quantum
parallelism manifested in the quantum computing theory. In particular, while
the quantum parallelism in quantum computing underlies efficient quantum
algorithms, the quantum parallelism in quantum information theory underlies
this, classically unexpected, increase of the fidelity.

A framework for discussing relationships between different types of games is
proposed. Within the framework, quantum simultaneous games, finite quantum
simultaneous games, quantum sequential games, and finite quantum sequential
games are defined. In addition, a notion of equivalence between two games is
defined. Finally, the following three theorems are shown: (1) For any quantum
simultaneous game G, there exists a quantum sequential game equivalent to G.
(2) For any finite quantum simultaneous game G, there exists a finite quantum
sequential game equivalent to G. (3) For any finite quantum sequential game G,
there exists a finite quantum simultaneous game equivalent to G.

The logic which describes quantum robots is not orthodox quantum logic, but a
deductive calculus which reproduces the quantum tasks (computational processes,
and actions) taking into account quantum superposition and quantum
entanglement. A way toward the realization of intelligent quantum robots is to
adopt a quantum metalanguage to control quantum robots. A physical
implementation of a quantum metalanguage might be the use of coherent states in
brain signals.

The multiple-quantum NMR spectroscopy has an extensive application in
determination of the bio-macro-molecular structures and in the investigation of
the properties of a variety of physical materials. In quantum computation the
multiple-quantum transition processes have been used to construct the quantum
circuits, quantum algorithms, and quantum simulations. The multiple-quantum
operator algebra spaces are closely related to the symmetries of a
multiple-spin quantum system. They may have an important effect on the
multiple-quantum transition processes and the multiple-quantum NMR spectroscopy
of the spin system. Here gives a brief introduction to the multiple-quantum
operator algebra spaces.

Quantum discord witnesses the nonclassicality of quantum states even when
there is no entanglement in these quantum states. This type of quantum
correlation also has some interesting and significant applications in quantum
information processing. Quantum discord has been evaluated explicitly only for
certain class of two-qubit states. We extend the previous studies to $2 \otimes
d$ quantum systems and derive an analytical expression for quantum discord for
a two-parameter class of states for $d \geq 3$. We compare quantum discord,
classical correlation, and entanglement for qubit-qutrit systems to demonstrate
that different measures of quantum correlation are not identical and
conceptually different.

Quantum metrology is studied in the presence of quantum correlation. The
quantum correlation measure based on quantum Fisher information enables us to
gain a deeper insight on how quantum correlations are instrumental in setting
metrological precision. Our analysis shows that not only the entanglement but
also the quantum correlation plays important roles to enhance precision in
quantum metrology. Even in the absence of entanglement, quantum correlation can
be exploited as the resource to beat standard quantum limit and reach
Heisenberg limit in metrology. Clearly unraveling the role of quantum
correlations, the tighter bounds on the metrological precision are derived.

Recent results in quantum information theory characterize quantum coherence
in the context of resource theories. Here we study the relation between quantum
coherence and quantum discord, a kind of quantum correlation which appears even
in non-entangled states. We prove that the creation of quantum discord with
multipartite incoherent operations is bounded by the amount of quantum
coherence consumed in its subsystems during the process. We show how the
interplay between quantum coherence consumption and creation of quantum discord
works in the preparation of multipartite quantum correlated states and in the
model of deterministic quantum computation with one qubit.

We apply covert quantum communication based on entanglement generated from
the Minkowski vacuum to the setting of quantum computation and quantum
networks. Our approach hides the generation and distribution of entanglement in
quantum networks by taking advantage of relativistic quantum effects. We devise
a suite of covert quantum teleportation protocols that utilize the shared
entanglement, local operations, and covert classical communication to transfer
or process quantum information in stealth. As an application of our covert
suite, we construct two prominent examples of measurement-based quantum
computation, namely the teleportation-based quantum computer and the one-way
quantum computer. In the latter case we explore the covert generation of graph
states, and subsequently outline a protocol for the covert implementation of
universal blind quantum computation.

The theory of measured quantum groupoids, as defined by Lesieur and myself,
was made to generalize the theory of quantum groups made by Kustarmans and
Vaes, but was only defined in a von Neumann algebra setting; Th. Timmermann
constructed locally compact quantum groupoids, which is a C*-version of quantum
groupoids. Here, we associate to such a locally compact quantum groupoid a
measured quantum groupoid in which it is weakly dense; we then associate to a
measured quantum groupoid a locally compact quantum groupoid which is weakly
dense in the measured quantum groupoid, but such a locally compact quantum
groupoid may be not unique; we construct a duality of locally compact quantum
groupoids. We give then examples of locally compact quantum groupoids.

Quantum non Markovianity and quantum Darwinism are two phenomena linked by a
common theme: the flux of quantum information between a quantum system and the
quantum environment it interacts with. In this work, making use of a quantum
collision model, a formalism initiated by Sudarshan and his school, we will
analyse the efficiency with which the information about a single qubit gained
by a quantum harmonic oscillator, acting as a meter, is transferred to a
bosonic environment. We will show how, in some regimes, such quantum
information flux is inefficient, leading to the simultaneous emergence of non
Markovian and non darwinistic behaviours

Quantum systems have an exponentially large degree of freedom in the number
of particles and hence provide a rich dynamics that could not be simulated on
conventional computers. Quantum reservoir computing is an approach to use such
a complex and rich dynamics on the quantum systems as it is for temporal
machine learning. In this chapter, we explain quantum reservoir computing and
related approaches, quantum extreme learning machine and quantum circuit
learning, starting from a pedagogical introduction to quantum mechanics and
machine learning. All these quantum machine learning approaches are
experimentally feasible and effective on the state-of-the-art quantum devices.

Quantum repeaters with multiple quantum memories provide high throughput, low
latency, and high fidelity quantum state (qubit) transfer over long distances.
However, conventional quantum repeater protocols require full connections among
the multiple quantum memories in a repeater node, which is technically
challenging. Here, we propose a quantum repeater protocol based on backward
propagating photon emission and absorption, where the quantum memories are
multiplexed in the time-domain to speed up a single transmission channel
without requiring full connectivity, drastically facilitating physical
implementation. Although the protocol is described with nitrogen-vacancy (NV)
centers in diamond, it is applicable to various physical systems and opens up
the possibility of high-speed high-fidelity quantum networks for distributed
quantum computation and quantum Internet.

Rapid ongoing progress in quantum information science makes this an apt time
for a Solvay Conference focused on The Physics of Quantum Information. Here I
review four intertwined themes encompassed by this topic: Quantum computer
science, quantum hardware, quantum matter, and quantum gravity. Though the time
scale for broad practical impact of quantum computation is still uncertain, in
the near future we can expect noteworthy progress toward scalable
fault-tolerant quantum computing, and discoveries enabled by programmable
quantum simulators. In the longer term, controlling highly complex quantum
matter will open the door to profound scientific advances and powerful new
technologies.

Quantum walks are referred to as quantum analogues to random walks in
mathematics. They have been studied as quantum algorithms in quantum
information for quantum computers. There are two types of quantum walks. One is
the discrete-time quantum walk and the other is the continuous-time quantum
walk. We study a continuous-time quantum walk on the half line and challenge to
find a limit theorem for it in this paper. As a result, approximate behavior of
the quantum walker is revealed after the system of quantum walk gets updated in
long time.

Recently, among experiments for realization of quantum computers, NMR quantum
computers have achieved the most impressive succession. There is a model of the
NMR quantum computation,namely Atsumi and Nishino's bulk quantum Turing
Machine. It assumes, however, an unnatural assumption with quantum mechanics.
We, then, define a more natural and quantum mechanically realizable modified
bulk quantum Turing Machine, and show its computational ability by comparing
complexity classes with quantum Turing Machine's counter part.

Does the notion of a quantum randomized or nondeterministic algorithm make
sense, and if so, does quantum randomness or nondeterminism add power? Although
reasonable quantum random sources do not add computational power, the
discussion of quantum randomness naturally leads to several definitions of the
complexity of quantum states. Unlike classical string complexity, both
deterministic and nondeterministic quantum state complexities are interesting.
A notion of \emph{total quantum nondeterminism} is introduced for decision
problems. This notion may be a proper extension of classical nondeterminism.

Recent development in quantum computation and quantum information theory
allows to extend the scope of game theory for the quantum world. The authors
have recently proposed a quantum description of financial market in terms of
quantum game theory. The paper contain an analysis of such markets that shows
that there would be advantage in using quantum computers and quantum
strategies.

The role of operational quantum mechanics, quantum axiomatics and quantum
structures in general is presented as a contribution to a compendium on quantum
physics, its history and philosophy.

Quantum nonlocality is discussed as an aspect of the quantum formalism that
is seriously in need of interpretation. The Transactional Interpretation of
quantum mechanics, which describes quantum processes as transactional
"handshakes" between retarded $\psi$ waves and advanced $\psi*$ waves, is
discussed. Examples of the use of the Transactional Interpretation in resolving
quantum paradoxes and in understanding the counter-intuitive aspects of the
formalism, particularly quantum nonlocality, are provided.

In this essay, I look at (bemoan) the issues surrounding simulating quantum
systems in order to design quantum devices for quantum technologies. The
program runs into a natural difficulty that simulating quantum systems really
require a proper quantum simulator. The problem is likened to the "tyranny of
numbers" that faced computer engineers in the 1960s.

This study investigated the unitary equivalent classes of one-dimensional
quantum walks. We determined the unitary equivalent classes of one-dimensional
quantum walks, two-phase quantum walks with one defect, complete two-phase
quantum walks, one-dimensional quantum walks with one defect and
translation-invariant one-dimensional quantum walks. The unitary equivalent
classes of one-dimensional quantum walks with initial states were also
considered.

It is an era full of imaginations and lack of impossibilities. The knowledge
boundaries have been being pushed back on and on. The quantum age is on the
edge of transforming quantum theories into quantum technologies. We present a
sketch of the advances of the quantum engineering towards quantum networks,
based on which we discuss the research problems in performance analysis of
quantum networks, with the goal to build a system theory for quantum network
design and deployment.

This article highlights quantum Internet computing as referring to
distributed quantum computing over the quantum Internet, analogous to
(classical) Internet computing involving (classical) distributed computing over
the (classical) Internet. Relevant to quantum Internet computing would be areas
of study such as quantum protocols for distributed nodes using quantum
information for computations, quantum cloud computing, delegated verifiable
blind or private computing, non-local gates, and distributed quantum
applications, over Internet-scale distances.

We classify discrete quantum subgroups in the quantum double of the
$q$-deformation of a compact semisimple Lie group, regarded as the
complexification. We also record their classifications in some variants of
quantum groups. Along the way, we show that quantum doubles of non-Kac type
compact quantum groups do not admit the quantum analog of lattices considered
by Brannan-Chirvasitu-Viselter.

This article provides a quick overview of quantum communication, bringing
together several innovative aspects of quantum enabled transmission. We first
take a neutral look at the role of quantum communication, presenting its
importance for the forthcoming wireless. Then, we summarise the principles and
basic mechanisms involved in quantum communication, including quantum
entanglement, quantum superposition, and quantum teleportation. Further, we
highlight its groundbreaking features, opportunities, challenges and future
prospects.

We discuss a general quantum theoretical example of quantum cohomology and
show that various mathematical aspects of quantum cohomology have quantum
mechanical and also observable significance.

"Quantum Topology" deals with the general quantum theory as the theory of the
functional quantum space; space time and energy momentum forms form a connected
manifold; a functional quantum space on the quantum level. The general quantum
theory derives from the topology of the quantum space.
  "Quantum Topodynamics" derives from quantum topology, it deals with the set
that underlies the assumed one structure of the topology, group and logic
structure of the quantum space. The underlying structure was founded on the
Fourier representation of the functional space.
  "Differential Topology in Quantum Space" deals with the method of analysis
approperiate for the quantum space; based on the Fourier representation of the
functional space.
  "Gauge Theory of Gravitation" deals with gravitation as a quantum topological
phenomenon; by introducing the effect of gravitation into the quantum space
through a phase angle; this displays its unity with the rest of the gauge
interactions and shows that the manifold is compact.

We suggest that quantum computers can solve quantum many-body problems that
are impracticable to solve on a classical computer.

Quantum computers are discussed in the general framework of computation, the
laws of physics and the foundations of quantum mechanics.

Quantum walks, the quantum mechanical counterpart of classical random walks,
is an advanced tool for building quantum algorithms that has been recently
shown to constitute a universal model of quantum computation. Quantum walks is
now a solid field of research of quantum computation full of exciting open
problems for physicists, computer scientists, mathematicians and engineers.
  In this paper we review theoretical advances on the foundations of both
discrete- and continuous-time quantum walks, together with the role that
randomness plays in quantum walks, the connections between the mathematical
models of coined discrete quantum walks and continuous quantum walks, the
quantumness of quantum walks, a summary of papers published on discrete quantum
walks and entanglement as well as a succinct review of experimental proposals
and realizations of discrete-time quantum walks. Furthermore, we have reviewed
several algorithms based on both discrete- and continuous-time quantum walks as
well as a most important result: the computational universality of both
continuous- and discrete- time quantum walks.

This is an introductory chapter of the book in progress on quantum
foundations and incompleteness of quantum mechanics. Quantum mechanics is
represented as statistical mechanics of classical fields.

As quantum technologies move from the issues of principle to those of
practice, it is important to understand the limitations on attaining tangible
quantum advantages. In the realm of quantum communication, quantum discord
captures the damaging effects of a decoherent environment. This is a
consequence of quantum discord quantifying the advantage of quantum coherence
in quantum communication. This establishes quantum discord as a resource for
quantum communication processes. We discuss this progress, which derives a
quantitative relation between the yield of the fully quantum Slepian-Wolf
protocol in the presence of noise and the quantum discord of the state
involved. The significance of quantum discord in noisy versions of
teleportation, super-dense coding, entanglement distillation and quantum state
merging are discussed. These results lead to open questions regarding the
tradeoff between quantum entanglement and discord in choosing the optimal
quantum states for attaining palpable quantum advantages in noisy quantum
protocols.

Quantum optics is the study of the intrinsically quantum properties of light.
During the second part of the 20th century experimental and theoretical
progress developed together; nowadays quantum optics provides a testbed of many
fundamental aspects of quantum mechanics such as coherence and quantum
entanglement. Quantum optics helped trigger, both directly and indirectly, the
birth of quantum technologies, whose aim is to harness non-classical quantum
effects in applications from quantum key distribution to quantum computing.
Quantum light remains at the heart of many of the most promising and
potentially transformative quantum technologies. In this review, we celebrate
the work of Sir Peter Knight and present an overview of the development of
quantum optics and its impact on quantum technologies research. We describe the
core theoretical tools developed to express and study the quantum properties of
light, the key experimental approaches used to control, manipulate and measure
such properties and their application in quantum simulation, and quantum
computing.

In this paper, we classify all simple modules over the quantum torus
$\mathbb{C}_{\nu}[x^{\pm1},y^{\pm1}]$ and the quantum group
$U_q(\mathfrak{sl_2})$ for generic case.

Currently, quantum hardware is restrained by noises and qubit numbers. Thus,
a quantum virtual machine that simulates operations of a quantum computer on
classical computers is a vital tool for developing and testing quantum
algorithms before deploying them on real quantum computers. Various variational
quantum algorithms have been proposed and tested on quantum virtual machines to
surpass the limitations of quantum hardware. Our goal is to exploit further the
variational quantum algorithms towards practical applications of quantum
machine learning using state-of-the-art quantum computers. This paper first
introduces our quantum virtual machine named Qsun, whose operation is
underlined by quantum state wave-functions. The platform provides native tools
supporting variational quantum algorithms. Especially using the parameter-shift
rule, we implement quantum differentiable programming essential for
gradient-based optimization. We then report two tests representative of quantum
machine learning: quantum linear regression and quantum neural network.

Quantum networks are complex systems formed by the interaction among quantum
processors through quantum channels. Analogous to classical computer networks,
quantum networks allow for the distribution of quantum computation among
quantum computers. In this work, we describe a quantum walk protocol to perform
distributed quantum computing in a quantum network. The protocol uses a quantum
walk as a quantum control signal to perform distributed quantum operations. We
consider a generalization of the discrete-time coined quantum walk model that
accounts for the interaction between a quantum walker system in the network
graph with quantum registers inside the network nodes. The protocol logically
captures distributed quantum computing, abstracting hardware implementation and
the transmission of quantum information through channels. Control signal
transmission is mapped to the propagation of the walker system across the
network, while interactions between the control layer and the quantum registers
are embedded into the application of coin operators. We demonstrate how to use
the quantum walker system to perform a distributed CNOT operation, which shows
the universality of the protocol for distributed quantum computing.
Furthermore, we apply the protocol to the task of entanglement distribution in
a quantum network.

It has been proven that the quantum discord is a more general tool to capture
non-classical correlation than quantum entanglement, because there is a
non-zero quantum discord in several mixed states that could not be measured by
quantum entanglement. But because of optimization part in formulating quantum
discord, it is very difficult and nearly impossible to find quantum discord for
some quantum states. So people proposed geometric quantum discord, which in a
bipartite state could be describe as the distance of the states from the
closest zero-discord state. To understand better geometric quantum discord,
this paper is devoted to compare it with quantum discord and measurement
induced non-locality that is in some sense dual to the geometric quantum
discord. As studying the quantum correlation experimentally is one of the
important thing in quantum information processing, so as our example for
illustrating the difference of geometric quantum discord, quantum discord and
measurement induced non-locality, our quantum system is a dimer (two spin-1/2
particles) in multiple quantum nuclear magnetic resonance.

We define an adaptive routing method for the management of quantum memory
failures in the quantum Internet. In the quantum Internet, the entangled
quantum states are stored in the local quantum memories of the quantum nodes. A
quantum memory failure in a particular quantum node can destroy several
entangled connections in the entangled network. A quantum memory failure event
makes the immediate and efficient determination of shortest replacement paths
an emerging issue in a quantum Internet scenario. The replacement paths omit
those nodes that are affected by the quantum memory failure to provide a
seamless network transmission. In the proposed solution, the shortest paths are
determined by a base-graph, which contains all information about the overlay
quantum network. The method provides efficient adaptive routing in quantum
memory failure scenarios of the quantum Internet. The results can be
straightforwardly applied in practical quantum networks, including
long-distance quantum communications.

As larger, higher-quality quantum devices are built and demonstrated in
quantum information applications, such as quantum computation and quantum
communication, the need for high-quality quantum memories to store quantum
states becomes ever more pressing. Future quantum devices likely will use a
variety of physical hardware, some being used primarily for processing of
quantum information and others for storage. Here, we study the correlation of
the structure of quantum information with physical noise models of various
possible quantum memory implementations. Through numerical simulation of
different noise models and approximate analytical formulas applied to a variety
of interesting quantum states, we provide comparisons between quantum hardware
with different structure, including both qubit- and qudit-based quantum
memories. Our findings point to simple, experimentally relevant formulas for
the relative lifetimes of quantum information in different quantum memories and
have relevance to the design of hybrid quantum devices.

Machine learning has achieved dramatic success in a broad spectrum of
applications. Its interplay with quantum physics may lead to unprecedented
perspectives for both fundamental research and commercial applications, giving
rise to an emergent research frontier of quantum machine learning. Along this
line, quantum classifiers, which are quantum devices that aim to solve
classification problems in machine learning, have attracted tremendous
attention recently. In this review, we give a relatively comprehensive overview
for the studies of quantum classifiers, with a focus on recent advances. First,
we will review a number of quantum classification algorithms, including quantum
support vector machines, quantum kernel methods, quantum decision tree
classifiers, quantum nearest neighbor algorithms, and quantum annealing based
classifiers. Then, we move on to introduce the variational quantum classifiers,
which are essentially variational quantum circuits for classifications. We will
review different architectures for constructing variational quantum classifiers
and introduce the barren plateau problem, where the training of quantum
classifiers might be hindered by the exponentially vanishing gradient. In
addition, the vulnerability aspect of quantum classifiers in the setting of
adversarial learning and the recent experimental progress on different quantum
classifiers will also be discussed.

Quantum repeaters are essential ingredients for quantum networks that link
distant quantum modules such as quantum computers and sensors. Motivated by
distributed quantum computing and communication, quantum repeaters that relay
discrete-variable quantum information have been extensively studied; while
continuous-variable (CV) quantum information underpins a variety of quantum
sensing and communication application, a quantum-repeater architecture for
genuine CV quantum information remains largely unexplored. This paper reports a
CV quantum-repeater architecture based on CV quantum teleportation assisted by
the Gottesman-Kitaev-Preskill (GKP) code to significantly suppress the physical
noise. The designed CV quantum-repeater architecture is shown to significantly
improve the performance of CV quantum key distribution, entanglement-assisted
communication, and target detection based on quantum illumination, as three
representative use cases for quantum communication and sensing.

Physical theories constrained with local quantum structure and satisfying the
no-signalling principle can allow beyond-quantum global states. In a standard
Bell experiment, correlations obtained from any such beyond-quantum bipartite
state can always be reproduced by quantum states and measurements, suggesting
local quantum structure and no-signalling to be the axioms to isolate quantum
correlations. In this letter, however, we show that if the Bell experiment is
generalized to allow local quantum inputs, then beyond-quantum correlations can
be generated by every beyond-quantum state. This gives us a way to certify
beyond-quantumness of locally quantum no-signalling theories and in turn
suggests requirement of additional information principles along with local
quantum structure and no-signalling principle to isolate quantum correlations.
More importantly, our work establishes that the additional principle(s) must be
sensitive to the quantum signature of local inputs. We also generalize our
results to multipartite locally quantum no-signalling theories and further
analyze some interesting implications.

We propose three core ideas: 1. the wave-particle duality of the qudit
quantum space; 2. the classification of all elementary quantum gates by ordered
pairs of qudit functionals; 3. a new type of quantum gates called the "quantum
wave gates". We first study the quantum functionals whose relation to the
quantum states is analogous to that between the momentum and position
wavefunctions in fundamental quantum physics: a Fourier transform and an
entropic uncertainty principle can be defined between the dual representations.
The quantum functionals are not just mathematical constructs but have clear
physical meanings and quantum circuit realizations. Connecting the partition
interpretation of the qudit functionals to the effects of quantum gates we
classify all elementary quantum gates by ordered pairs of qudit functionals. By
generalizing the qudit functionals to quantum functionals, the new type of
"quantum wave gates" are discovered as quantum versions of the conventional
quantum gates.

Quantum kernel methods, i.e., kernel methods with quantum kernels, offer
distinct advantages as a hybrid quantum-classical approach to quantum machine
learning (QML), including applicability to Noisy Intermediate-Scale Quantum
(NISQ) devices and usage for solving all types of machine learning problems.
Kernel methods rely on the notion of similarity between points in a higher
(possibly infinite) dimensional feature space. For machine learning, the notion
of similarity assumes that points close in the feature space should be close in
the machine learning task space. In this paper, we discuss the use of
variational quantum kernels with task-specific quantum metric learning to
generate optimal quantum embeddings (a.k.a. quantum feature encodings) that are
specific to machine learning tasks. Such task-specific optimal quantum
embeddings, implicitly supporting feature selection, are valuable not only to
quantum kernel methods in improving the latter's performance, but they can also
be valuable to non-kernel QML methods based on parameterized quantum circuits
(PQCs) as pretrained embeddings and for transfer learning. This further
demonstrates the quantum utility, and quantum advantage (with
classically-intractable quantum embeddings), of quantum kernel methods.

A quantum-classical limit of the canonical equilibrium time correlation
function for a quantum system is derived. The quantum-classical limit for the
dynamics is obtained for quantum systems comprising a subsystem of light
particles in a bath of heavy quantum particles. In this limit the time
evolution of operators is determined by a quantum-classical Liouville operator
but the full equilibrium canonical statistical description of the initial
condition is retained. The quantum-classical correlation function expressions
derived here provide a way to simulate the transport properties of quantum
systems using quantum-classical surface-hopping dynamics combined with sampling
schemes for the quantum equilibrium structure of both the subsystem of interest
and its environment.

Usually models for quantum computations deal with unitary gates on pure
states. In this paper we generalize the usual model. We consider a model of
quantum computations in which the state is an operator of density matrix and
the gates are quantum operations, not necessarily unitary. A mixed state
(operator of density matrix) of n two-level quantum systems is considered as an
element of $4^{n}$-dimensional operator Hilbert space. Unitary quantum gates
and nonunitary quantum operations for n-qubit system are considered as
generalized quantum gates acting on mixed state. In this paper we study
universality for quantum computations by quantum operations on mixed states.

We are currently in the midst of a second quantum revolution. The first
quantum revolution gave us new rules that govern physical reality. The second
quantum revolution will take these rules and use them to develop new
technologies. In this review we discuss the principles upon which quantum
technology is based and the tools required to develop it. We discuss a number
of examples of research programs that could deliver quantum technologies in
coming decades including; quantum information technology, quantum
electromechanical systems, coherent quantum electronics, quantum optics and
coherent matter technology.

Comments On "Three Paradox of Quantum Information"

Only a few classes of quantum algorithms are known which provide a speed-up
over classical algorithms. However, these and any new quantum algorithms
provide important motivation for the development of quantum computers. In this
article new quantum algorithms are given which are based on quantum state
tomography. These include an algorithm for the calculation of several quantum
mechanical expectation values and an algorithm for the determination of
polynomial factors. These quantum algorithms are important in their own right.
However, it is remarkable that these quantum algorithms are immune to a large
class of errors. We describe these algorithms and provide conditions for
immunity.

Quantum Computing is a new and exciting field at the intersection of
mathematics, computer science and physics. It concerns a utilization of quantum
mechanics to improve the efficiency of computation. Here we present a gentle
introduction to some of the ideas in quantum computing. The paper begins by
motivating the central ideas of quantum mechanics and quantum computation with
simple toy models. From there we move on to a formal presentation of the small
fraction of (finite dimensional) quantum mechanics that we will need for basic
quantum computation. Central notions of quantum architecture (qubits and
quantum gates) are described. The paper ends with a presentation of one of the
simplest quantum algorithms: Deutsch's algorithm. Our presentation demands
neither advanced mathematics nor advanced physics.

We study the quantum mechanical generalization of force or pressure, and then
we extend the classical thermodynamic isobaric process to quantum mechanical
systems. Based on these efforts, we are able to study the quantum version of
thermodynamic cycles that consist of quantum isobaric process, such as quantum
Brayton cycle and quantum Diesel cycle. We also consider the implementation of
quantum Brayton cycle and quantum Diesel cycle with some model systems, such as
single particle in 1D box and single-mode radiation field in a cavity. These
studies lay the microscopic (quantum mechanical) foundation for Szilard-Zurek
single molecule engine.

This paper discusses the formulations of the past in quantum mechanics.

We recognize quantum circuit model of computation as factorisable scattering
model and propose that a quantum computer is associated with a quantum
many-body system solved by the Bethe ansatz. As an typical example to support
our perspectives on quantum computation, we study quantum computing in
one-dimensional nonrelativistic system with delta-function interaction, where
the two-body scattering matrix satisfies the factorisation equation (the
quantum Yang--Baxter equation) and acts as a parametric two-body quantum gate.
We conclude by comparing quantum computing via the factorisable scattering with
topological quantum computing.

An inequality about quantum noise is presented with the imprecise measurement
theory, which is used to analyse the quantum limit in continuous quantum
measurement. Different from the linear-response approach based on the quantum
relation between noise and susceptibilities of the detector, we provide an
explicit functional relation between quantum noise and reduction operator, and
show a rigorous result: The minimum noise added by the detector in quantum
measurement is precisely equal to the zero-point noise. This conclusion
generalizes the standard Haus-Caves quantum limit for a linear amplifier. We
also discuss the statistic characters of the back-action force in quantum
measurement and show on how to reach the quantum limit.

We clarify that coined quantum walk is determined by only the choice of local
quantum coins. To do so, we characterize coined quantum walks on graph by
disjoint Euler circles with respect to symmetric arcs. In this paper, we
introduce a new class of coined quantum walk by a special choice of quantum
coins determined by corresponding quantum graph, called quantum graph walk. We
show that a stationary state of quantum graph walk describes the eigenfunction
of the quantum graph.

We define a "quantum spherical model", a quantum lattice model.

This is a chapter in a book \emph{Quantum Error Correction} edited by D. A.
Lidar and T. A. Brun, and published by Cambridge University Press (2013)\\
(http://www.cambridge.org/us/academic/subjects/physics/quantum-physics-quantum-information-and-quantum-computation/quantum-error-correction)\\
presenting the author's view on feasibility of fault-tolerant quantum
information processing.

Quantum determinants and Pfaffians or permanents and Hafnians are introduced
on the two parameter quantum general linear group. Fundamental identities among
quantum Pf, Hf, and det are proved in the general setting. We show that there
are two special quantum algebras among the quantum groups, where the quantum
Pfaffians have integral Laurent polynomials as coefficients. As a consequence,
the quantum Hafnian is computed by a closely related quantum permanent and
identical to the quantum Pfaffian on this special quantum algebra.

Quantum Cryptography is a rapidly developing field of research that benefits
from the properties of Quantum Mechanics in performing cryptographic tasks.
Quantum walks are a powerful model for quantum computation and very promising
for quantum information processing. In this paper, we present a quantum
public-key cryptographic system based on quantum walks. In particular, in the
proposed protocol the public key is given by a quantum state generated by
performing a quantum walk. We show that the protocol is secure and analyze the
complexity of public-key generation and encryption/decryption procedures.

In this paper, we present Clifford+T gates based quantum circuit design of
integer division having $n$ ancillary qubits. The proposed quantum circuit is
based on restoring division algorithm. The proposed quantum circuit of integer
division consists of (i) quantum circuitry of conditional addition operation,
(ii) quantum circuitry of integer subtraction. To design ancillary and T-count
optimized design of quantum integer division, the optimized quantum circuit
design of integer conditional addition operation and integer subtraction are
presented. The proposed quantum integer division circuitry has 50\% improvement
in terms of ancillary qubits, and 90\% improvement in terms of T-count compared
to the existing design of integer quantum division based on quantum fourier
transform.

Quantum dots embedded in photonic nanostructures have in recent years proven
to be a very powerful solid-state platform for quantum optics experiments. The
combination of near-unity radiative coupling of a single quantum dot to a
photonic mode and the ability to eliminate decoherence processes imply that an
unprecedented light-matter interface can be obtained. As a result,
high-cooperativity photon-emitter quantum interfaces can be constructed opening
a path-way to deterministic photonic quantum gates for quantum-information
processing applications. In the present manuscript, I review current
state-of-the-art on quantum dot devices and their applications for quantum
technology. The overarching long-term goal of the research field is to
construct photonic quantum networks where remote entanglement can be
distributed over long distances by photons.

This paper deduces universal uncertainty principle in different quantum
theories after about one century of proposing uncertainty principle by
Heisenberg, i.e., new universal uncertainty principle of any orders of physical
quantities in quantum physics, overcomes the difficulty that current quantum
computer, quantum communication, quantum control, quantum mechanics and so on
theories cannot give exact values of general uncertainty of any orders of
physical quantities, further gives all relevant different expressions of the
universal uncertainty principle and their applications. In fact, our studies
are consistent with current theories and physical factual experiments, e.g.,
relevant to hydrogen atom physics experiments. Using the new universal
uncertainty principle, people can give all applications to atomic physics,
quantum mechanics, quantum communication, quantum calculations, quantum
computer and so on.

Relational verification of quantum programs has many potential applications
in quantum and post-quantum security and other domains. We propose a relational
program logic for quantum programs. The interpretation of our logic is based on
a quantum analogue of probabilistic couplings. We use our logic to verify
non-trivial relational properties of quantum programs, including uniformity for
samples generated by the quantum Bernoulli factory, reliability of quantum
teleportation against noise (bit and phase flip), security of quantum one-time
pad and equivalence of quantum walks.

This brief article gives an overview of quantum mechanics as a {\em quantum
probability theory}. It begins with a review of the basic operator-algebraic
elements that connect probability theory with quantum probability theory. Then
quantum stochastic processes is formulated as a generalization of stochastic
processes within the framework of quantum probability theory. Quantum Markov
models from quantum optics are used to explicitly illustrate the underlying
abstract concepts and their connections to the quantum regression theorem from
quantum optics.

The minimal time a system requires to transform from an initial state to
target state is defined as the quantum speed limit time. quantum speed limit
time can be applied to quantify the maximum speed of the evolution of a quantum
system. Quantum speed limit time is inversely related to the speed of evolution
of a quantum system. That is, shorter quantum speed limit time means higher
speed of quantum evolution. In this work, we study the quantum speed limit time
of a two-level atom under Homodyne-based feedback control. The results show
that the quantum speed limit time is decreased by increasing feedback
coefficient. So, Homodyne-based feedback control can induce speedup the
evolution of quantum system.

This thesis is focused on the design and analysis of quantum communication
protocols. Several schemes for quantum communication have been introduced in
the recent past. For example, quantum teleportation, dense coding, quantum key
distribution, quantum secure direct communication, etc., have been rigorously
studied in the last 2-3 decades. Specifically, a specific attention of the
present thesis is to study the quantum teleportation schemes with entangled
orthogonal and nonorthogonal states and their experimental realization, but not
limited to it. We have also studied some aspects of quantum cryptography.

This volume contains a selection of papers presented at the 9th in a series
of international conferences on Quantum Simulation and Quantum Walks (QSQW).
During this event, we worked on the development of theories based upon quantum
walks and quantum simulation models, in order to solve interrelated problems
concerning the simulation of standard quantum field theory, quantum gravity and
cosmological models, dissipative quantum computing, searching on complex
quantum networks, and the topological classification of multi-particle quantum
walks.

Quantum walks are widely and successfully used to model diverse physical
processes. This leads to computation of the models, to explore their
properties. Quantum walks have also been shown to be universal for quantum
computing. This is a more subtle result than is often appreciated, since it
applies to computations run on qubit-based quantum computers in the single
walker case, and physical quantum walks in the multi-walker case (quantum
cellular automata). Nonetheless, quantum walks are powerful tools for quantum
computing when correctly applied. In this paper, I explain the relationship
between quantum walks as models and quantum walks as computational tools, and
give some examples of their application in both contexts.

In mathematical aspect, we introduce quantum algorithm and the mathematical
structure of quantum computer. Quantum algorithm is expressed by linear algebra
on a finite dimensional complex inner product space. The mathematical
formulations of quantum mechanics had been established in around 1930, by von
Neumann. The formulation uses functional analysis, linear algebra and
probability theory. The knowledge of the mathematical formulation of QM is
enough quantum mechanical knowledge for approaching to quantum algorithm and it
might be efficient way for mathematicians that starting with mathematical
formulations of QM. We explain the mathematical formulations of quantum
mechanics briefly, quantum bits, quantum gates, quantum discrete Fourier
transformation, Deutsch's algorithm and Shor's algorithm.

The investigation of quantum-classical correspondence may lead to gain a
deeper understanding of the classical limit of quantum theory. We develop a
quantum formalism on the basis of a linear-invariant theorem, which gives an
exact quantum-classical correspondence for damped oscillatory systems that are
perturbed by an arbitrary force. Within our formalism, the quantum trajectory
and expectation values of quantum observables are precisely coincide with their
classical counterparts in the case where we remove the global quantum constant
h from their quantum results. In particular, we illustrate the correspondence
of the quantum energy with the classical one in detail.

Quantum computational chemistry is a potential application of quantum
computers that is expected to effectively solve several quantum-chemistry
problems, particularly the electronic structure problem. Quantum computational
chemistry can be compared to the conventional computational devices. This
review comprehensively investigates the applications and overview of quantum
computational chemistry, including a review of the Hartree-Fock method for
quantum information scientists. Quantum algorithms, quantum phase estimation,
and variational quantum eigensolver, have been applied to the post-Hartree-Fock
method.

We generalize Banica's construction of the quantum isometry group of a metric
space to the class of quantum metric spaces in the sense of Kuperberg and
Weaver. We also introduce quantum isometries between two quantum metric spaces,
and we show that if a pair of quantum metric spaces are algebraically quantum
isometric, then their quantum isometry groups are monoidally equivalent.
Motivated by the recent work on the graph isomorphism game, we introduce a new
two-player non-local game called the metric isometry game, where players can
win classically if and only if the metric spaces are isometric. Winning quantum
strategies of this game align with quantum isometries of the metric spaces.

The characterization of the quantum ensemble is a fundamental issue in
quantum information theory and foundations. The ensemble is also useful for
various quantum information processing. To characterize the quantum ensemble,
in this article, we generalize the coherence measure of a state to the quantum
ensemble. Exploiting the fidelity and affinity between the ensemble, we propose
a quantumness quantifier for the quantum ensemble. It is shown that the
proposed quantifier satisfies the necessary axioms of a bonafide measure of
quantumness. Finally, we compute the quantumness of a few well-known ensembles.

Bell inequality can provide a useful witness for device-independent
applications with quantum (or post-quantum) eavesdroppers. This feature holds
only for single entangled systems. Our goal is to explore device-independent
model for quantum networks. We firstly propose a Bell inequality to verify the
genuinely multipartite nonlocality of connected quantum networks including
cyclic networks and universal quantum computational resources for
measurement-based computation model. This is further used to construct new
monogamy relation in a fully device-independent model with multisource quantum
resources. It is finally applied for multiparty quantum key distribution, blind
quantum computation, and quantum secret sharing. The present model can inspire
various large-scale applications on quantum networks in a device-independent
manner.

The development of estimation and control theories for quantum systems is a
fundamental task for practical quantum technology. This vision article presents
a brief introduction to challenging problems and potential opportunities in the
emerging areas of quantum estimation, control and learning. The topics cover
quantum state estimation, quantum parameter identification, quantum filtering,
quantum open-loop control, quantum feedback control, machine learning for
estimation and control of quantum systems, and quantum machine learning.

Starting with a consideration of the implication of Bell inequalities in
quantum mechanics, a new quantum postulate is suggested in order to restore
classical locality and causality to quantum physics: only the relative
coordinates between detected quantum events are valid observables. This
postulate supports the EPR view that quantum mechanics is incomplete, while
also staying compatible to the Bohr view that nothing exists beyond the
quantum. The new postulate follows from a more general principle of quantum
relativity, which states that only correlations between experimental detections
of quantum events have a real classical existence. Quantum relativity provides
a framework to differentiate the quantum and classical world.

Quantum Computers, one fully realized, can represent an exponential boost in
computing power. However, the computational power of the current quantum
computers, referred to as Noisy Internediate Scale Quantum, or NISQ, is
severely limited because of environmental and intrinsic noise, as well as the
very low connectivity between qubits compared to their total amount. We propose
a virtual quantum processor that emulates a generic hybrid quantum machine
which can serve as a logical version of quantum computing hardware. This hybrid
classical quantum machine powers quantum-logical computations which are
substitutable by future native quantum processors.

Quantum walk is fundamental to designing many quantum algorithms. Here we
consider the effects of quantum coherence and quantum entanglement for the
quantum walk search on the complete bipartite graph. First, we numerically show
the complementary relationship between the success probability and the two
quantum resources (quantum coherence and quantum entanglement). We also provide
theoretical analysis in the asymptotic scenarios. At last, we discuss the role
played by generalized depolarizing noises and find that it would influence the
dynamics of success probability and quantum coherence sharply, which is
demonstrated by theoretical derivation and numerical simulation.

We use the quantum potential approach to analyse the quantum cosmological
model of the universe. The quantum potential arises from exact solutions of the
full Wheeler-De Witt equation.

A construction of the quantum affine algebra $U_q(g)$ is given in two steps.
We explain how to obtain the algebra from its positive Borel subalgebra
$U_q(b^+)$, using a construction similar to Drinfeld's quantum double. Then we
show how the positive Borel subalgebra can be constructed with quantum
shuffles.

Quantum planes and a new quantum cylinder are obtained as quantization of
Poisson homogeneous spaces of two different Poisson structures on classical
Euclidean group E(2).

An approach to construction of a quantum group gauge theory based on the
quantum group generalisation of fibre bundles is reviewed.

We derive a simple relation between a quantum channel's capacity to convey
coherent (quantum) information and its usefulness for quantum cryptography.

This is a short introduction to quantum computers, quantum algorithms and
quantum error correcting codes. Familiarity with the principles of quantum
theory is assumed. Emphasis is put on a concise presentation of the principles
avoiding lengthy discussions.

A general scheme for building a quantum memory by transferring quantum
information to an essentially decoherence-free memory transition using quantum
control is presented and illustrated by computer simulations.

Quantum discord was proposed as an information theoretic measure of the
``quantumness'' of correlations. I show that discord determines the difference
between the efficiency of quantum and classical Maxwell's demons in extracting
work from collections of correlated quantum systems.

What makes quantum information science a science? This paper explores the
idea that quantum information science may offer a powerful approach to the
study of complex quantum systems.

A new notation has been introduced for the quantum information theory. By
this notation,some calculations became simple in quantum information theory
such as quantum swapping, quantum teleportation.

We describe a linear quantum optical circuit capable of demonstrating a
simple quantum error correction code in a four photon experiment.

I show that the photon pairs used in experimental tests of quantum
non-locality based on Bell's theorem are not in the entangled quantum state.
The correct quantum state of the ``entangled'' photon pairs is suggested. Two
experiments for testing this quantum state are proposed.

I describe a quantum cellular automaton capable of performing universal
quantum computation. The automaton has an elementary transition function that
acts on Margolus cells of $2\times 2$ qubits, and both the ``quantum input''
and the program are encoded in the initial state of the system.

We give a summary of the theory of (weak) quantum vertex $\C((t))$-algebras
and the association of quantum affine algebras with (weak) quantum vertex
$\C((t))$-algebras.

An introduction (in Russian) to quantum computers, quantum cryptography, and
quantum teleportation for students who have no previous knowledge of these
subjects, but know quantum mechanics. Several simple examples are considered in
detail using the quantum computer emulator QCL.

Understanding commuting local Hamiltonians (CLHs) is at the heart of many
questions in quantum computational complexity and quantum physics: quantum
error correcting codes, quantum NP, the PCP conjecture, topological order and
more.

This paper collects into one place my replies to the questions posed by
Maximilian Schlosshauer in his interview volume about the foundations of
quantum mechanics, "Elegance and Enigma: The Quantum Interviews" (Springer,
2011).

The purpose of this work is to present a complet categorical point of view of
the association between finite dimmensional representations of a compact
quantum group and quantum vector bundles with quantum linear connections using
M. Durdevichs theory.

Quantum resource theories allow us to quantify a useful quantum phenomenon,
to develop new protocols for its detection and determine the exact processes
that maximize its use for practical tasks. These theories aim at transforming
physical phenomena, such as entanglement and quantum coherence, into useful
properties for the execution of concrete tasks related to quantum information.
In this thesis, we focus on the resource theories of entanglement, discord-like
quantum correlations, and quantum coherence, the most intriguing quantum
phenomena exploited so far in quantum information theory. We begin by
presenting in detail the theoretical tools of these quantum resources, focusing
on the most remarkable techniques and computational problems. In this sense, we
discuss several mathematical methods that solve some problems related to their
quantifications, and some analytical results for bipartite quantum systems are
given. We also examine the intrinsic connections between these quantum
resources by extracting the links that unite the corresponding measures. In
contrast, the revolution of quantum technology has led to a growing interest in
quantum metrology, and quantum entanglement has been employed to overcome the
classical limit in several quantum estimation protocols. In this work, we
analyze the role of quantum correlations beyond entanglement in improving the
accuracy of an unknown parameter. According to our results, correlations can be
captured using quantum Fisher information, and quantum discord correlations can
be exploited to ensure the accuracy of phase estimation protocols. This thesis
includes also the contributions on the dynamics of these quantum resources in
various models of open quantum systems. Among our objectives, is to study the
effects of the environment on these quantum resources and to obtain techniques
to protect them from the effects of intrinsic decoherence.

High-performance quantum light sources based on semiconductor quantum dots
coupled to microcavities are showing their promise in long-distance solid-state
quantum networks.

Quantum superposition, collapse of wave function and quantum measurement
problem are reexamined based on nonadiabatic dressed states and experimental
observations on the quantum transitions. The physical mechanisms behind these
processes are revealed.

We introduce quantum association schemes. This allows to define distance
regular and strongly regular quantum graphs. We bring examples thereof. In
addition, we formulate the duality for translation quantum association schemes
corresponding to finite quantum groups.

A. Van Daele introduced and investigated so-called algebraic quantum groups.
We proved that such algebraic quantum groups give rise to C*-algebraic quantum
groups in the sense of Masuda, Nakagami & Woronowicz. We prove in this paper
that the analytic structure of these C*-algebraic quantum groups can be pulled
down to the algebraic quantum group.

Associated to the standard $SU_{q}(n)$ R-matrices, we introduce quantum
spheres $S_{q}^{2n-1}$, projective quantum spaces $CP_{q}^{n-1}$, and quantum
Grassmann manifolds $G_{k}(C_{q}^{n})$. These algebras are shown to be
homogeneous quantum spaces of standard quantum groups and are also quantum
principle bundles in the sense of T Brzezinski and S. Majid (Comm. Math. Phys.
157,591 (1993)).

Quantum Lorentz groups H admitting quantum Minkowski space V are selected.
Natural structure of a quantum space G = V x H is introduced, defining a
quantum group structure on G only for triangular H (q=1). We show that it
defines a braided quantum group structure on G for |q|=1.

The general scheme of data compression using the quantum noiseless coding
theorem of Schumacher is dicussed for general quantum sources. When the Hilbert
space of the quantum source is decomposable into orthogonal subspaces, one can
first perform classical data compression before performing the quantum data
compression for individual subspaces. For minimizing the resource in quantum
coding, a general parameterization of the dimensions in the Jozsa-Schumacher
quantum data compression scheme is presented.

We show that the quantum baker's map, a prototypical map invented for
theoretical studies of quantum chaos, has a very simple realization in terms of
quantum gates. Chaos in the quantum baker's map could be investigated
experimentally on a quantum computer based on only 3 qubits.

I report two general methods to construct quantum convolutional codes for
quantum registers with internal $N$ states. Using one of these methods, I
construct a quantum convolutional code of rate 1/4 which is able to correct one
general quantum error for every eight consecutive quantum registers.

To make arbitrarily accurate quantum computation possible, practical
realization of quantum computers will require suppressing noise in quantum
memory and gate operations to make it below a threshold value. A scheme based
on realistic quantum computer models is described for suppressing noise in
quantum computation without the cost of stringent quantum computing resources.

The study of mutual entropy (information) and capacity in classica l system
was extensively done after Shannon by several authors like Kolmogor ov and
Gelfand. In quantum systems, there have been several definitions of t he mutual
entropy for classical input and quantum output. In 1983, the autho r defined
the fully quantum mechanical mutual entropy by means of the relati ve entropy
of Umegaki, and it has been used to compute the capacity of quant um channel
for quantum communication process; quantum input-quantum output.
  Recently, a correlated state in quantum syatems, so-called quantum entangled
state or quantum entanglement, are used to study quntum information, in part
icular, quantum computation, quantum teleportation, quantum cryptography.
  In this paper, we mainly discuss three things below: (1) We point out the di
fference between the capacity of quantum channel and that of classical-quant
um-classical channel. (2) So far the entangled state is merely defined as a
non-separable state, we give a wider definition of the entangled state and c
lassify the entangled states into three categories. (3) The quantum mutual e
ntropy for an entangled state is discussed. The above (2) and (3) are a join t
work with Belavkin.

This paper investigates a variety of unconventional quantum computation
devices, including fermionic quantum computers and computers that exploit
nonlinear quantum mechanics. It is shown that unconventional quantum computing
devices can in principle compute some quantities more rapidly than
`conventional' quantum computers.

An optical scheme for the reliable transfer of quantum information through a
noisy quantum channel is proposed. The scheme is inspired by quantum
error-correction protocols, but it avoids the currently infeasible requirement
for a controlled-NOT operation between single photons. The quantum
communication scheme presented here rejects single bit-flip errors instead of
correcting them and combines quantum-measurement properties of three-particle
entangled (GHZ) states with properties of quantum teleportation.

We suggest how to construct non-perturbatively a renormalized action in
quantum mechanics. We discuss similarties and differences with the standard
effective action. We propose that the new quantum action is suitable to define
and compute quantum instantons and quantum chaos.

Quantum cloning machine for arbitrary mixed states in symmetric subspace is
proposed. This quantum cloning machine can be used to copy part of the output
state of another quantum cloning machine and is useful in quantum computation
and quantum information. The shrinking factor of this quantum cloning achieves
the well-known upper bound. When the input is identical pure states, two
different fidelities of this cloning machine are optimal.

Ground-state quantum computers mimic quantum mechanical time evolution within
the amplitudes of a time-independent quantum state. We explore the principles
that constrain this mimicking. A no-cloning argument is found to impose strong
restrictions. It is shown, however, that there is flexibility that can be
exploited using quantum teleportation methods to improve ground-state quantum
computer design.

We give a mathematical criterion for the concept of information flow within
closed quantum systems described by quantum registers. We define the concepts
of separations and entanglements over quantum registers and use them with the
quantum zip properties of inner products over quantum registers to establish
the concept of partition change, which is fundamental to our criterion of
endophysical information exchange within such quantum systems.

A phase space mathematical formulation of quantum mechanical processes
accompanied by and ontological interpretation is presented in an axiomatic
form. The problem of quantum measurement, including that of quantum state
filtering, is treated in detail. Unlike standard quantum theory both quantum
and classical measuring device can be accommodated by the present approach to
solve the quantum measurement problem

The quantum capacity of a pure quantum channel and that of
classical-quantum-classical channel are discussed in detail based on the fully
quantum mechanical mutual entropy. It is proved that the quantum capacity
generalizes the so-called Holevo bound.

Recent experiments in quantum optics have shed light on the foundations of
quantum physics. Quantum erasers - modified quantum interference experiments -
show that quantum entanglement is responsible for the complementarity
principle.

I design a simple way of distinguishing non-orthogonal quantum states with
perfect reliability using only quantum control-not gates in one condition. In
this way, we can implement pure quantum communication in directly sending
classical information, Ekert quantum cryptography and quantum teleportation
without the help of classical communications channel.

Quantum telecloning is a multiparty quantum communication protocol which
allows quantum information broadcasting. It can be, therefore, seen as a
generalization of quantum teleportation. However, in contrast to quantum
teleportation, it requires the resource of multipartite entanglement. Here we
present an experimental demonstration of universal symmetric 1->2 quantum
telecloning of qubits via four-photon polarisation entanglement.

Quantum mechanics is a special kind of description of motion. The concept of
wave function itself implies the openness of quantum system. We show that
quantum mechanics describes the quantum correlation, i.e., entanglement, and
information in a new kind of space, tangnet T^2, where exist the basic quantum
structure of qubit and the universal out-in symmetry. This work tries to form a
new view to the fundamental problems of the foundation of quantum mechanics.

We propose a new scheme for solid-state photonic quantum computation in which
trapped photons in optical cavities are taken as a quantum bit. Quantum gates
can be realized by coupling the cavities with quantum dots through waveguides.
The proposed scheme allows programmable and deterministic gate operations and
the system can be scaled up to many quantum bits.

It is shown in the paper that the unitary quantum dynamics in quantum
mechanics is the universal quantum driving force to speed up a quantum
computation. This assertion supports strongly in theory that the unitary
quantum dynamics is the fundamental and universal principle in nature. On the
other hand, the symmetric structure of Hilbert space of a composite quantum
system is the quantum-computing resource that is not owned by classical
computation. A new quantum-computing speedup theory is set up on the basis of
the unitary quantum dynamics. Both the unitary quantum dynamics and the
symmetric structure and property of the Hilbert space of the quantum system are
mainly responsible for an exponential quantum-computing speedup for a general
efficient quantum algorithm. The inherent importance for the unitary quantum
dynamics to speed up a quantum computation lies in the unique ability of the
unitary quantum dynamics to build the effective interaction between the
symmetric structure of the Hilbert space of the quantum system and the
mathematical symmetric structure of a problem to be solved on the quantum
system. This unique ability could result in an essential difference of
computational power between quantum and classical computations by combining the
symmetric structure and property of the Hilbert space. The new
quantum-computing speedup theory also provides reasonable mechanisms for
exponential quantum-computing speedup for the existing efficient quantum
algorithms based on the quantum parallel principle. These existing quantum
algorithms including the hidden-subgroup-problem quantum algorithms and
conventional quantum search algorithms have the common character that the
symmetric structure of the Hilbert space does not have any effective effect on
these quantum algorithms. This could be the main reason why these quantum
algorithms are quite special and considered to be semiclassical.

In this Letter we consider stationary states of dissipative quantum systems.
We discuss stationary states of dissipative quantum systems, which coincide
with stationary states of Hamiltonian quantum systems. Dissipative quantum
systems with pure stationary states of linear harmonic oscillator are
suggested. We discuss bifurcations of stationary states for dissipative quantum
systems which are quantum analogs of classical dynamical bifurcations.

A natural scheme is established for the approximation of quantum Levy
processes on locally compact quantum groups by quantum random walks. We work in
the somewhat broader context of discrete approximations of completely positive
quantum stochastic convolution cocycles on C*-bialgebras.

Integrable quantum computation is defined as quantum computing via the
integrable condition, in which two-qubit gates are either nontrivial unitary
solutions of the Yang--Baxter equation or the Swap gate (permutation). To make
the definition clear, in this article, we explore the physics underlying the
quantum circuit model, and then present a unified description on both quantum
computing via the Bethe ansatz and quantum computing via the Yang--Baxter
equation.

In spite of its outstanding success, quantum mechanics remains mysterious,
many problems such as wave/particle dualism and quantum nonlocality remain
open. Because a particle, e.g. a photon, is a quantum of a corresponding
quantum field, an arbitrary particle state directly corresponds to a quantum
field, which shows the quantum field is nonlocal. A microphysical entity (ME)
can be taken as the corresponding quantum field which is in the state of a
quantum, where the quantum field is responsible for the ME's wave-like nature
and the quantum for the ME's particle-like nature. A quantum state directly
corresponds to a quantum field. Base on this simple model, many big problems in
quantum physics, such as the wave/particle dualism, the collapse of the quantum
state on measurement, the nonlocality in quantum entanglement, quantum
teleportation, quantum swapping, and the paradox in the delayed-choice
entanglement swapping, can be solved in very simple and natural manners.

There is compelling theoretical evidence that quantum physics will change the
face of information science. Exciting progress has been made during the last
two decades towards the building of a large scale quantum computer. A quantum
group approach stands out as a promising route to this holy grail, and provides
hope that we may have quantum computers in our future.

Quantum correlation includes quantum entanglement and quantum discord. Both
entanglement and discord have a common necessary condition--------quantum
coherence or quantum superposition. In this paper, we attempt to give an
alternative understanding of how quantum correlation is related to quantum
coherence. We divide the coherence of a quantum state into several classes and
find the complete coincidence between geometric (symmetric and asymmetric)
quantum discords and some particular classes of quantum coherence. We propose a
revised measure for total coherence and find that this measure can lead to a
symmetric version of geometric quantum correlation which is analytic for two
qubits. In particular, this measure can also arrive at a monogamy equality on
the distribution of quantum coherence. Finally, we also quantify a remaining
type of quantum coherence and find that for two qubits it is directly connected
with quantum nonlocality.

Over the quantum weighted 1-dimensional complex projective spaces, called
quantum teardrops, the quantum line bundles associated with the quantum
principal U(1)-bundles introduced and studied by Brzezinski and Fairfax are
explicitly identified among the finitely generated projective modules which are
classified up to isomorphism. The quantum lens space in which these quantum
line bundles are embedded is realized as a concrete groupoid C*-algebra.

Combining abstract to laboratory projected quantum states a general analysis
of headline quantum phenomena is presented. Standard representation mode is
replaced; instead quantum states sustained by elementary material constituents
occupy its place. Renouncing to assign leading roles to language originated in
classical physics when describing genuine quantum processes, together with
sustainment concept most, if not all weirdness associated to Quantum Mechanics
vanishes.

Quantum algorithms for solving problems of interesting size often result in
circuits with a very large number of qubits and quantum gates. Fortunately,
these algorithms also tend to contain a small number of repetitively-used
quantum kernels. Identifying the quantum logic blocks that implement such
quantum kernels is critical to the complexity management for realizing the
corresponding quantum circuit. Moreover, quantum computation requires some type
of quantum error correction coding to combat decoherence, which in turn results
in a large number of ancilla qubits in the circuit. Sharing the ancilla qubits
among quantum operations (even though this sharing can increase the overall
circuit latency) is important in order to curb the resource demand of the
quantum algorithm. This paper presents a multi-core reconfigurable quantum
processor architecture, called Requp, which supports a layered approach to
mapping a quantum algorithm and ancilla sharing. More precisely, a scalable
quantum mapper, called Squash, is introduced, which divides a given quantum
circuit into a number of quantum kernels- each kernel comprises k parts such
that each part will run on exactly one of k available cores. Experimental
results demonstrate that Squash can handle large-scale quantum algorithms while
providing an effective mechanism for sharing ancilla qubits.

We present an idea to convert to a unitary quantum walk any open quantum walk
which is defined on lattices as well as on finite graphs. This approach
generalizes to the domain of open quantum walks (or quantum Markov chains) the
framework introduced by Szegedy for quantizing Markov chains. For the unitary
quantum walks formulated in this article, we define the probability and the
mean probability of finding the walk at a node, then derive the asymptotic mean
probability.

Encoding and decoding quantum information in a multipartite quantum system
are indispensable for quantum error correction and also play crucial roles in
multiparty tasks in distributed quantum information processing such as quantum
secret sharing. To quantitatively characterize nonlocal properties of
multipartite quantum transformations for encoding and decoding, we analyze
entanglement costs of encoding and decoding quantum information in a
multipartite quantum system distributed among spatially separated parties
connected by a network. This analysis generalizes previous studies of
entanglement costs for preparing bipartite and multipartite quantum states and
implementing bipartite quantum transformations by entanglement-assisted local
operations and classical communication (LOCC). We identify conditions for the
parties being able to encode or decode quantum information in the distributed
quantum system deterministically and exactly, when inter-party quantum
communication is restricted to a tree-topology network. In our analysis, we
reduce the multiparty tasks of implementing the encoding and decoding to
sequential applications of one-shot zero-error quantum state splitting and
merging for two parties. While encoding and decoding are inverse tasks of each
other, our results suggest that a quantitative difference in entanglement cost
between encoding and decoding arises due to the difference between quantum
state merging and splitting.

Quantum computing is concerned with computer technology based on the
principles of quantum mechanics, with operations performed at the quantum
level. Quantum computational models make it possible to analyze the resources
required for computations. Quantum automata can be classified thusly: quantum
finite automata, quantum sequential machine, quantum pushdown automata, quantum
Turing machine and orthomodular lattice-valued automata. These models are
useful for determining the expressive power and boundaries of various
computational features. In light of the current state of quantum computation
theory research, a systematic review of the literature seems timely. This
article seeks to provide a comprehensive and systematic analysis of quantum
finite automata models, quantum finite automata models with density operators
and quantum finite automata models with classical states, interactive proof
systems, quantum communication complexity and query complexity as described in
the literature. The statistics of quantum finite automata related papers are
shown and open problems are identified for more advanced research. The current
status of quantum automata theory is distributed into various categories. This
research work also highlights the previous research, current status and future
directions of quantum automata models.

We introduce quantum versions of Manin pairs and Manin triples and define
quantum moment maps in this context. This provides a framework that
incorporates quantum moment maps for actions of Lie algebras and quantum groups
for any quantum parameter. We also show how our quantum moment maps degenerate
to known classical versions of moment maps and describe their fusion.

In fundamental theories that accounts for quantum gravitational effects, the
spacetime causal structure is expected to be quantum uncertain. Previous
studies of quantum causal structure focused on finite-dimensional systems. Here
we present an algebraic framework that incorporates both finite- and
infinite-dimensional systems including quantum fields. Thanks to the absence of
a definite spacetime causal structure, Lagrangian quantum field theories can be
studied on a quantum superposition of spacetimes with a point identification
structure.

Quantum Robot is an excellent future application that can be achieved with
the help of a quantum computer. As a practical example, quantum controlled
Braitenberg vehicles proposed by Raghuvanshi et al. [Proceedings of the 37th
International Symposium on Multiple-Valued Logic (2007)] is a mobile quantum
system and hence acts as a quantum robot. Braitenberg vehicles are simple
circuit robots which can experience natural behaviours like fear, aggression
and love etc. These robots can be controlled by quantum circuits incorporating
quantum principles such as entanglement and superposition. Complex behaviours
can be mimicked by a quantum circuit that can be implemented in a quantum
robot. Here we investigate the scheme of Raghuvanshi et al. and propose a new
quantum circuit to make the quantum robot fly. We demonstrate one of its
application in playing a game. The quantum robot we present here shows the
behaviour of `fear' and its movement is deterministic in nature. This
phenomenon can be successfully modelled in a game, where it can always avoid
accident. The proposed quantum circuit is designed in IBM quantum experience
describing the above protocol.

A quantum symmetric pair is a quantization of the symmetric pair of universal
enveloping algebras. Recent development suggests that most of the theory for
quantum groups can be generalised to the setting of quantum symmetric pairs. In
this paper, we study the $\imath$quantum group at roots of $1$. We generalize
Lusztig's quantum Frobenius morphism in this new setting. We define the small
$\imath$quantum group and compute its dimension.

We demonstrate that quantum information processing (QIP) completely rests on
quantum Fourier transform (QFT), and 190 years after his death, the work of
Jean-Baptiste Joseph Fourier is more present than ever in Physics, constituting
the heart of QIP, and showing the spectral nature of quantum entanglement,
quantum teleportation, and quantum secret sharing.

The quest of this work is to present discussions of some fundamental
questions of economics in the era of quantum technology, which require a
treatment different from economics studied thus far in the literature. A study
of quantum economic behavior will become the center of attention of economists
in the coming decades. We analyze a quantum economy in which players produce
and consume quantum goods. They meet randomly and barter with neighbors
bilaterally for quantum goods they produced. We clarify the conditions where
certain quantum goods emerge endogenously as media of exchange, called quantum
commodity money. As quantum strategies are entangled, we find distinctive
aspects of quantum games that cannot be explained by conventional classical
games. In some situations a quantum player can acquire a quantum good from
people regardless of their strategies, while on the other hand people can find
quantum strategies that improve their welfare based on an agreement. Those
novel properties imply that quantum games also shed new light on theories of
mechanism design, auction and contract in the quantum era.

Simulation and programming of current quantum computers as Noisy
Intermediate-Scale Quantum (NISQ) devices represent a hot topic at the border
of current physical and information sciences. The quantum walk process
represents a basic subroutine in many quantum algorithms and plays an important
role in studying physical phenomena. Simulating quantum walk processes is
computationally challenging for classical processors. With an increasing
improvement in qubits fidelity and qubits number in a single register, there is
a potential to improve quantum walks simulations substantially. However,
efficient ways to simulate quantum walks in qubit registers still have to be
explored. Here, we explore the relationship between quantum walk on graphs and
quantum circuits. Firstly, we discuss ways to obtain graphs provided quantum
circuit. We then explore techniques to represent quantum walk on a graph as a
quantum circuit. Specifically, we study hypercube graphs and arbitrary graphs.
Our approach to studying the relationship between graphs and quantum circuits
paves way for the efficient implementation of quantum walks algorithms on
quantum computers.

We review the literature about reaching agreement in quantum networks, also
called quantum consensus. After a brief introduction to the key feature of
quantum computing, allowing the reader with no quantum theory background to
have minimal tools to understand, we report a formal definition of quantum
consensus and the protocols proposed. Proposals are classified according to the
quantum feature used to achieve agreement.

In this note, I review a recent approach to quantum gravity that "gravitizes"
quantum mechanics by emerging geometry and gravity from complex quantum states.
Drawing further insights from tensor network toy models in AdS/CFT, I propose
that approximate quantum error correction codes, when re-adapted into the
aforementioned framework, also has promise in emerging gravity in near-flat
geometries.

This paper proposes a hybrid quantum-classical algorithm that learns a
suitable quantum feature map that separates unlabelled data that is originally
non linearly separable in the classical space using a Variational quantum
feature map and q-means as a subroutine for unsupervised learning. The
objective of the Variational circuit is to maximally separate the clusters in
the quantum feature Hilbert space. First part of the circuit embeds the
classical data into quantum states. Second part performs unsupervised learning
on the quantum states in the quantum feature Hilbert space using the q-means
quantum circuit. The output of the quantum circuit are characteristic cluster
quantum states that represent a superposition of all quantum states belonging
to a particular cluster. The final part of the quantum circuit performs
measurements on the characteristic cluster quantum states to output the
inter-cluster overlap based on fidelity. The output of the complete quantum
circuit is used to compute the value of the cost function that is based on the
Hilbert-Schmidt distance between the density matrices of the characteristic
cluster quantum states. The gradient of the expectation value is used to
optimize the parameters of the variational circuit to learn a better quantum
feature map.

Quantum diffusion, as developed in the 1990s, could explain how a system,
subject to measurement, goes into an eigenstate of the measured observable.
Here it is shown that quantum diffusion theory can be interpreted as a result
within linear relativistic quantum mechanics. Thus, in contrast to what is
widely believed, quantum measurement can be analyzed within the theory of
quantum mechanics itself.

We give the superalgebra of $N=2$ chiral (and antichiral) quantum superfields
realized as a subalgebra of the quantum supergroup $\mathrm{SL}_q(4|2)$. The
multiplication law in the quantum supergroup induces a coaction on the set of
chiral superfields. We also realize the quantum deformation of the chiral
Minkowski superspace as a quantum principal bundle.

Given a unitary transformation, what is the size of the smallest quantum
circuit that implements it? This quantity, known as the quantum circuit
complexity, is a fundamental property of quantum evolutions that has widespread
applications in many fields, including quantum computation, quantum field
theory, and black hole physics. In this letter, we obtain a new lower bound for
the quantum circuit complexity in terms of a novel complexity measure that we
propose for quantum circuits, which we call the quantum Wasserstein complexity.
Our proposed measure is based on the quantum Wasserstein distance of order one
(also called the quantum earth mover's distance), a metric on the space of
quantum states. We also prove several fundamental and important properties of
our new complexity measure, which stand to be of independent interest. Finally,
we show that our new measure also provides a lower bound for the experimental
cost of implementing quantum circuits, which implies a quantum limit on
converting quantum resources to computational resources. Our results provide
novel applications of the quantum Wasserstein distance and pave the way for a
deeper understanding of the resources needed to implement a quantum
computation.

Discrete-time quantum walks, quantum generalizations of classical random
walks, provide a framework for quantum information processing, quantum
algorithms and quantum simulation of condensed matter systems. The key property
of quantum walks, which lies at the heart of their quantum information
applications, is the possibility for a parametric quantum speed-up in
propagation compared to classical random walks. In this work we study
propagation of quantum walks on percolation-generated two-dimensional random
lattices. In large-scale simulations of topological and trivial split-step
walks, we identify distinct pre-diffusive and diffusive behaviors at different
time scales. Importantly, we show that even arbitrarily weak concentrations of
randomly removed lattice sites give rise to a complete breakdown of the
superdiffusive quantum speed-up, reducing the motion to ordinary diffusion. By
increasing the randomness, quantum walks eventually stop spreading due to
Anderson localization. Near the localization threshold, we find that the
quantum walks become subdiffusive. The fragility of quantum speed-up implies
dramatic limitations for quantum information applications of quantum walks on
random geometries and graphs.

In this paper it has been described how to use the unitary dynamics of
quantum mechanics to solve the prime factorization problem on a spin ensemble
without any quantum entanglement. The ensemble quantum computation for the
prime factorization is based on the basic principle that both a closed quantum
system and its ensemble obey the same unitary dynamics of quantum mechanics if
there is not any decoherence effect in both the quantum system and its
ensemble. It uses the NMR multiple-quantum measurement techniques to output the
quantum computational results that are the inphase multiple-quantum spectra of
the spin ensemble. It has been shown that the inphase NMR multiple-quantum
spectral intensities used to search for the period of the modular exponential
function may reduce merely in a polynomial form as the qubit number of the spin
ensemble. The time evolution process of the modular exponential operation on
the quantum computer obeys the unitary dynamics of quantum mechanics and hence
the computational output is governed by the quantum dynamics. This essential
difference between the quantum computer and the classical one could be the key
point for the quantum computation outperforming the classical one in the prime
factorization on a spin ensemble without any quantum entanglement. It has been
shown that the prime factorization based on the quantum dynamics on a spin
ensemble is locally efficient at least. This supports the conjecture that the
quantum dynamics could play an important role for the origin of power of
quantum computation and quantum entanglement could not be a unique resource to
achieve power of quantum computation in the prime factorization.

This thesis focuses on three main questions in the continuous variable and
optical settings: where does a quantum advantage, that is, the ability of
quantum machines to outperform classical machines, come from? How to ensure the
proper functioning of a quantum machine? What advantages can be gained in
practice from the use of quantum information?
  Quantum advantage in continuous variable comes in particular from the use of
so-called non-Gaussian quantum states. We introduce the stellar formalism to
characterize these states. We then study the transition from classically
simulable models to models which are universal for quantum computing. We show
that quantum computational supremacy, the dramatic speedup of quantum computers
over their classical counterparts, may be realised with non-Gaussian states and
Gaussian measurements.
  Quantum certification denotes the methods seeking to verify the correct
functioning of a quantum machine. We consider certification of quantum states
in continuous variable, introducing several protocols according to the
assumptions made on the tested state. We develop efficient methods for the
verification of a large class of multimode quantum states, including the output
states of the Boson Sampling model, enabling the experimental verification of
quantum supremacy with photonic quantum computing.
  We give several new examples of practical applications of quantum information
in linear quantum optics. Generalising the swap test, we highlight a connection
between the ability to distinguish two quantum states and the ability to
perform universal programmable quantum measurements, for which we give various
implementations in linear optics, based on the use of single photons or
coherent states. Finally, we obtain, thanks to linear optics, the first
implementation of a quantum protocol for weak coin flipping, a building block
for many cryptographic applications.

With the advance in quantum computing in recent years, quantum software
becomes vital for exploring the full potential of quantum computing systems.
Quantum programming is different from classical programming, for example, the
state of a quantum program is probabilistic in nature, and a quantum computer
is error-prone due to the instability of quantum mechanisms. Therefore, the
characteristics of bugs in quantum software projects may be very different from
that of classical software projects. This work aims to understand the
characteristics of bugs in quantum software projects, in order to provide
insights to help devise effective testing and debugging mechanisms. To achieve
this goal, we conduct an empirical study on the bug reports of 125 quantum
software projects. We observe that quantum software projects are more buggy
than classical software projects and that quantum project bugs are more costly
to fix than classical project bugs. We also identify the types of the bugs and
the quantum programming components where they occurred. Our study shows that
the bugs are spread across different components, but quantum-specific bugs
particularly appear in the compiler, gate operation, and state preparation
components. The three most occurring types of bugs are Program anomaly bugs,
Configuration bugs, and Data type and structure bugs. Our study highlights some
particularly challenging areas in quantum software development, such as the
lack of scientific quantum computation libraries that implement comprehensive
mathematical functions for quantum computing. Quantum developers also seek
specialized data manipulation libraries for quantum software engineering like
Numpy for quantum computing. Our findings also provide insights for future work
to advance the quantum program development, testing, and debugging of quantum
software, such as providing tooling support for debugging low-level circuits.

Memory is an indispensable component in classical computing systems. While
the development of quantum computing is still in its early stages, current
quantum processing units mainly function as quantum registers. Consequently,
the actual role of quantum memory in future advanced quantum computing
architectures remains unclear. With the rapid scaling of qubits, it is
opportune to explore the potential and feasibility of quantum memory across
different substrate device technologies and application scenarios. In this
paper, we provide a full design stack view of quantum memory. We start from the
elementary component of a quantum memory device, quantum memory cells. We
provide an abstraction to a quantum memory cell and define metrics to measure
the performance of physical platforms. Combined with addressing functionality,
we then review two types of quantum memory devices: random access quantum
memory (RAQM) and quantum random access memory (QRAM). Building on top of these
devices, quantum memory units in the computing architecture, including building
a quantum memory unit, quantum cache, quantum buffer, and using QRAM for the
quantum input-output module, are discussed. We further propose the programming
model for the quantum memory units and discuss their possible applications. By
presenting this work, we aim to attract more researchers from both the Quantum
Information Science (QIS) and classical memory communities to enter this
emerging and exciting area.

We review our recent work addressing various theoretical issues in spin-based
quantum dot quantum computation and quantum information processing. In
particular, we summarize our calculation of electron exchange interaction in
two-electron double quantum dots and multi-electron double dots, and discuss
the physical implication of our results. We also discuss possible errors and
how they can be corrected in spin-based quantum dot quantum computation. We
critically assess the constraints and conditions required for building
spin-based solid state quantum dot quantum computers.

I review the present theoretical attempts to understand the quantum
properties of spacetime. In particular, I illustrate the main achievements and
the main difficulties in: string theory, loop quantum gravity, discrete quantum
gravity (Regge calculus, dynamical triangulations and simplicial models),
Euclidean quantum gravity, perturbative quantum gravity, quantum field theory
on curved spacetime, noncommutative geometry, null surfaces, topological
quantum field theories and spin foam models. I also briefly review several
recent advances in understanding black hole entropy and attempt a critical
discussion of our present understanding of quantum spacetime.

The quantum Anti-de Sitter (AdS) group and quantum AdS space is discussed.
Ways of getting the quantum AdS group from real forms of quantum orthogonal
group are presented. Differential calculus on the quantum AdS space are also
introduced. In particular, reality of differential calculus are given. We set
up explicit relationships between quantum group and quantum algebra, which can
be refereed as the quantum counterpart of the classical exponential. By this
way, quantum AdS algebra is deduced from conjugation on the quantum AdS group.

Quantum affine bundles are quantum principal bundles with affine quantum
structure groups. A general theory of quantum affine bundles is presented. In
particular, a detailed analysis of differential calculi over these bundles is
performed, including the description of a natural differential calculus over
the structure affine quantum group. A particular attention is given to the
study of the specific properties of quantum affine connections and several
purely quantum phenomena appearing in the context of quantum affine bundles.
Various interesting constructions are presented. In particular, the main ideas
are illustrated within the example of the quantum Hopf fibration.

The quantum Ito formula has so far been proved for regular (bounded) quantum
semimartingales We give three different extensions to classes of essentially
self-adjoint (unbounded) quantum semimartingales.
  The first extension is to quantum semimartingales whose integrands have chaos
matrices controlled by certain scalar matrices
  The second extension is to perturbations of classical, possibly unbounded,
quantum semimartingales by bounded quantum semimartingales
  The third extension is obtained by perturbing an essentially self-adjoint
quantum semimartingale satisfying the quantum Duhamel formula by a regular
quantum semimartingle.

Quantum families of maps between quantum spaces are defined and studied. We
prove that quantum semigroup (and sometimes quantum group) structures arise
naturally on such objects out of more fundamental properties. As particular
cases we study quantum semigroups of maps preserving a fixed state and quantum
commutants of given quantum families of maps.

The double quantum groups are the Hopf algebras underlying the complex
quantum groups of which the simplest example is the quantum Lorentz group. They
are non- standard quantizations of the double group $G \times G$. We construct
a corresponding quantized universal enveloping algebra (QUE) and prove that the
pairing between a quantum double group and its QUE is nondegenerate. We analyze
the representation theory of these double quantum groups, give a detailed
version of the Iwasawa decomposition proved by Podles and Woronowicz for the
quantum Lorentz group, and show that they are noetherian algebras. Finally we
outline a construction of more general non-standard quantum groups using
quantum double groups and their generalizations.

Quantum homogeneous vector bundles are introduced by a direct description of
their sections in the context of Woronowicz type compact quantum groups. The
bundles carry natural topologies inherited from the quantum groups, and their
sections furnish projective modules over algebras of functions on quantum
homogeneous spaces. Further properties of the quantum homogeneous vector
bundles are investigated, and their applications to the representation theory
of quantum groups are explored. In particular, quantum Frobenius reciprocity
and a generalized Borel-Weil theorem are established.

Noise causes severe difficulties in implementing quantum computing and
quantum cryptography. Several schemes have been suggested to reduce this
problem, mainly focusing on quantum computation. Motivated by quantum
cryptography, we suggest a coding which uses $N$ quantum bits ($N=n^2$) to
encode one quantum bit, and reduces the error exponentially with $n$. Our
result suggests the possibility of distributing a secure key over very long
distances, and maintaining quantum states for very long times. It also provides
a new quantum privacy amplification against a strong adversary.

We present a constructive method to translate small quantum circuits into
their optical analogues, using linear components of present-day quantum optics
technology only. These optical circuits perform precisely the computation that
the quantum circuits are designed for, and can thus be used to test the
performance of quantum algorithms. The method relies on the representation of
several quantum bits by a single photon, and on the implementation of universal
quantum gates using simple optical components (beam splitters, phase shifters,
etc.). The optical implementation of Brassard et al.'s teleportation circuit, a
non-trivial 3-bit quantum computation, is presented as an illustration.

A framework for a quantum information theory is introduced that is based on
the measure of quantum information associated with probability distribution
predicted by quantum measuring of state. The entanglement between states of
measured system and "pointer" states of measuring apparatus, which is generated
by dynamical process of quantum measurement, plays a dominant role in
expressing quantum characteristics of information theory. The quantum mutual
information of transmission and reception of quantum states along a noisy
quantum channel is given by the change of quantum measured information. In our
approach, it is not necessary to purify the transmitted state by means of the
reference system. It is also clarified that there exist relations between the
approach given in this letter and those given by other authors.

An universal quantum network which can implement a general quantum computing
is proposed. In this sense, it can be called the quantum central processing
unit (QCPU). For a given quantum computing, its realization of QCPU is just its
quantum network. QCPU is standard and easy-assemble because it only has two
kinds of basic elements and two auxiliary elements. QCPU and its realizations
are scalable, that is, they can be connected together, and so they can
construct the whole quantum network to implement the general quantum algorithm
and quantum simulating procedure.

The concept of quantum interleaver and a simple method of quantum burst-error
correction is proposed. By using the quantum interleaver, any quantum
burst-errors that have occurred spread over the interleaved code word, so that
we can construct good quantum burst-error correcting codes without increasing
the redundancy of the code. We also discuss the general method of constructing
the quantum circuit for the quantum interleaver and the quantum network.

Any quantum computational network can be constructed with a sequence of the
two-qubit diagonal quantum gates and one-qubit gates in two-state quantum
systems. The universal construction of these quantum gates in the quantum
systems and of the quantum computational networks with these gates may be
achieved with the help of the operator algebra structure of Hamiltonians of the
systems and the properties of the multiple-quantum operator algebra subspaces
of the Liouville operator space and the specific properties of the quantum
algorithm corresponding to the quantum network. As an example, the two-qubit
diagonal gates are exactly prepared in detail in superconducting Josephson
junctions.

We show how quantum dynamics (a unitary transformation) can be captured in
the state of a quantum system, in such a way that the system can be used to
perform, at a later time, the stored transformation almost perfectly on some
other quantum system. Thus programmable quantum gates for quantum information
processing are feasible if some small degree of imperfection is allowed. We
discuss the possibility of using this fact for securely computing a secret
function on a public quantum computer. Finally, our scheme for storage of
operations also allows for a new form of quantum remote control.

What makes quantum information science a science? These notes explore the
idea that quantum information science may offer a powerful approach to the
study of complex quantum systems. We discuss how to quantify complexity in
quantum systems, and argue that there are two qualitatively different types of
complex quantum system. We also explore ways of understanding complex quantum
dynamics by quantifying the strength of a quantum dynamical operation as a
physical resource. This is the text for a talk at the ``Sixth International
Conference on Quantum Communication, Measurement and Computing'', held at MIT,
July 2002. Viewgraphs for the talk may be found at http://www.qinfo.org/talks/.

Introduced recently approach based on tomographic probability distribution of
quantum states is shown to be closely related with the known notion of the
quantum probability measures discussed in quantum information theory and
positive operator valued measures approach. Partial derivative of the
distribution function of quantum probability measure associated with the
homodyne quadrature (symplectic quantum measure) is shown to be equal the
tomogram of the quantum state. Analogous relation of the spin tomogram to
quantum probability measure associated with spin state is obtained.
Star-product of symplectic quantum measures is studied. Evolution equation for
symplectic quantum measures is derived.

An elementary introduction into algebraic approach to unified quantum
information theory and operational approach to quantum entanglement as
generalized encoding is given. After introducing compound quantum state and two
types of informational divergences, namely, Araki-Umegaki (a-type) and of
Belavkin-Staszewski (b-type) quantum relative entropic information, this paper
treats two types of quantum mutual information via entanglement and defines two
types of corresponding quantum channel capacities as the supremum via the
generalized encodings. It proves the additivity property of quantum channel
capacities via entanglement, which extends the earlier results of V. P.
Belavkin to products of arbitrary quantum channels for quantum relative entropy
of any type.

Quantum walks, being the quantum analogue of classical random walks, are
expected to provide a fruitful source of quantum algorithms. A few such
algorithms have already been developed, including the `glued trees' algorithm,
which provides an exponential speedup over classical methods, relative to a
particular quantum oracle. Here, we discuss the possibility of a quantum walk
algorithm yielding such an exponential speedup over possible classical
algorithms, without the use of an oracle. We provide examples of some highly
symmetric graphs on which efficient quantum circuits implementing quantum walks
can be constructed, and discuss potential applications to quantum search for
marked vertices along these graphs.

A program package for MATLAB is introduced that helps calculations in quantum
information science and quantum optics. It has commands for the following
operations: (i) Reordering the qudits of a quantum register, computing the
reduced state of a quantum register. (ii) Defining important quantum states
easily. (iii) Formatted input and output for quantum states and operators. (iv)
Constructing operators acting on given qudits of a quantum register and
constructing spin chain Hamiltonians. (v) Partial transposition, matrix
realignment and other operations related to the detection of quantum
entanglement. (vi) Generating random state vectors, random density matrices and
random unitaries.

Quantum correlations as the resource for quantum communication can be
distributed over long distances by quantum repeaters. In this Letter, we
introduce the notion of a noisy quantum repeater, and examine its role in
quantum communication. Quantum correlations shared through noisy quantum
repeaters are then characterized and their secrecy properties are studied.
Remarkably, noisy quantum repeaters naturally introduce private states in the
key distillation scenario, and consequently key distillation protocols are
demonstrated to be more tolerant.

We describe the notion of a quantum family of maps of a quantum space and
that of a quantum commutant of such a family. Quantum commutants are quantum
semigroups defined by a certain universal property. We give a few examples of
these objects acting on a classical $n$-point space and on the quantum space
underlying the algebra of two by two matrices. We show that some of the
resulting quantum semigroups are not compact quantum groups. The proof of one
result touches on an interesting problem of the theory of compact quantum
groups.

This article surveys the state of the art in quantum computer algorithms,
including both black-box and non-black-box results. It is infeasible to detail
all the known quantum algorithms, so a representative sample is given. This
includes a summary of the early quantum algorithms, a description of the
Abelian Hidden Subgroup algorithms (including Shor's factoring and discrete
logarithm algorithms), quantum searching and amplitude amplification, quantum
algorithms for simulating quantum mechanical systems, several non-trivial
generalizations of the Abelian Hidden Subgroup Problem (and related
techniques), the quantum walk paradigm for quantum algorithms, the paradigm of
adiabatic algorithms, a family of ``topological'' algorithms, and algorithms
for quantum tasks which cannot be done by a classical computer, followed by a
discussion.

In this paper we study oriented quantum coalgebras which are structures
closely related to oriented quantum algebras. We study the relationship between
oriented quantum coalgebras and oriented quantum algebras and the relationship
between oriented quantum coalgebras and quantum coalgebras. We show that there
are regular isotopy invariants of oriented 1-1 tangles and of oriented knots
and links associated to oriented and twist oriented quantum coalgebras
respectively. There are many parallels between the theory of oriented quantum
coalgebras and the theory of quantum coalgebras

We consider a quaternionic quantum formalism for the description of quantum
states and quantum dynamics. We prove that generalized quantum measurements on
physical systems in quaternionic quantum theory can be simulated by usual
quantum measurements with positive operator valued measures on complex Hilbert
spaces. Furthermore, we prove that quaternionic quantum channels can be
simulated by completely positive trace preserving maps on complex matrices.
These novel results map all quaternionic quantum processes to algorithms in
usual quantum information theory.

Regarding the strange properties of quantum entropy and entanglement, e.g.,
the negative quantum conditional entropy, we revisited the foundations of
quantum entropy, namely, von Neumann entropy, and raised the new method of
quantum fine-grained entropy. With the applications in entanglement theory,
quantum information processing, and quantum thermodynamics, we demonstrated the
capability of quantum fine-grained entropy to resolve some notable confusions
and problems, including the measure of entanglement and quantumness, the
additivity conjecture of entanglement of formation etc, and the definition of
temperature for single quantum system.

An open quantum walk formalism for dissipative quantum computing is
presented. The approach is illustrated with the examples of the Toffoli gate
and the Quantum Fourier Transform for 3 and 4 qubits. It is shown that the
algorithms based on the open quantum walk formalism are more efficient than the
canonical dissipative quantum computing approach. In particular, the open
quantum walks can be designed to converge faster to the desired steady state
and to increase the probability of detection of the outcome of the computation.

In this paper we investigate the capability of quantum routing (quantum state
fusion) to implement two useful quantum communications protocols. The analyzed
protocols include quantum authentication of quantum messages and
non-destructive linear-optical Bell state manipulation. We also present the
concept of quantum decoupler -- a device implementing an inverse operation to
quantum routing. We demonstrate that both quantum router and decoupler can work
as specialized disentangling gates.

Both quantum spin Hall and quantum anomalous Hall states are novel states of
quantum matter with promising applications. We propose junction quantum wells
comprising II-VI, III-V or IV semiconductors as a large class of new materials
realizing the quantum spin Hall state. Especially, we find that the bulk band
gap for the quantum spin Hall state can be as large as 0.1 eV. Further more,
magnetic doping would induce the ferromagnetism in these junction quantum wells
due to band edge singularities in the band-inversion regime and to realize the
quantum anomalous Hall state.

In this paper, we study the entanglement and quantum discord of the output
modes in the unified $1\rightarrow 2$ state-dependent cloning and probabilistic
quantum cloning. The tripartite entanglement among the output modes and the
quantum cloning machine is also considered. We find that the roles of the
quantum correlations including the bipartite and tripartite entanglement and
quantum discord strongly depend on the quantum cloning machines as well as the
cloned state. In particular, it is found that this quantum cloning scheme can
be realizable even without any quantum correlation.

This paper presents a quantum version of the Monty Hall problem based upon
the quantum inferring acausal structures, which can be identified with
generalization of Bayesian networks. Considered structures are expressed in
formalism of quantum information theory, where density operators are identified
with quantum generalization of probability distributions. Conditional relations
between quantum counterpart of random variables are described by quantum
conditional operators. Presented quantum inferring structures are used to
construct a model inspired by scenario of well-known Monty Hall game, where we
show the differences between classical and quantum Bayesian reasoning.

We introduce a new scalable cavity quantum electrodynamics platform which can
be used for quantum computing. This system is composed of coupled photonic
crystal (PC) cavities which their modes lie on a Dirac cone in the whole super
crystal band structure. Quantum information is stored in quantum dots that are
positioned inside the cavities. We show if there is just one quantum dot in the
system, energy as photon is exchanged between the quantum dot and the Dirac
modes sinusoidally. Meanwhile the quantum dot becomes entangled with Dirac
modes. If we insert more quantum dots into the system, they also become
entangled with each other.

A quantum simulator is a purposeful quantum machine that can address complex
quantum problems in a controllable setting and an efficient manner. This
chapter introduces a solid-state quantum simulator platform based on
exciton-polaritons, which are hybrid light-matter quantum quasi-particles. We
describe the physical realization of an exciton-polariton quantum simulator in
semiconductor materials (hardware) and discuss a class of problems, which the
exciton-polariton quantum simulators can address well (software). A current
status of the experimental progress in building the quantum machine is
reviewed, and potential applications are considered.

Through introducing controlled alternative quantum walks, we present
controlled alternate quantum walks (CAQW) based quantum hash function. CAQW
based quantum hash function have excellent security, outstanding statistical
performance and splendid expansibility. Furthermore, due to the structure of
alternative quantum walks, implementing CAQW based quantum hash function
significantly reduces the resources necessary for its feasible experimental
realization than implementing other quantum hash functions. Besides, CAQW based
quantum hash function has expansibility.

In this work, we show that a universal quantum work relation for a quantum
system driven arbitrarily far from equilibrium extend to
$\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric quantum system with unbroken $\mathcal{PT}$ symmetry,
which is a consequence of microscopic reversibility. The quantum Jarzynski
equality, linear response theory and Onsager reciprocal relations for the
$\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric quantum system are recovered as special cases of the
universal quantum work relation in $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetric quantum system. In
the regime of broken $\mathcal{PT}$ symmetry, the universal quantum work
relation does not hold as the norm is not preserved during the dynamics.

Quantum correlations characterized by quantum entanglement and quantum
discord play important roles in many quantum information processing. We study
the relations among the entanglement of formation, concurrence, tangle, linear
entropy based classical correlation and von Neumann entropy based classical
correlation. We present analytical formulae of linear entropy based classical
correlation for arbitrary $d\otimes 2$ quantum states and von Neumann entropy
based classical correlation for arbitrary $2\otimes 2$ rank-2 quantum states.
From the von Neumann entropy based classical correlation, we derive an explicit
formula of quantum discord for arbitrary rank-2 two-qubit quantum states.

We define and construct a quantum Grothendieck ring for a certain monoidal
subcategory of the category $\mathcal{O}$ of representations of the quantum
loop algebra introduced by Hernandez-Jimbo. We use the cluster algebra
structure of the Grothendieck ring of this category to define the quantum
Grothendieck ring as a quantum cluster algebra. When the underlying simple Lie
algebra is of type $A$, we prove that this quantum Grothendieck ring contains
the quantum Grothendieck ring of the category of finite-dimensional
representations of the associated quantum affine algebra. In type $A_1$, we
identify remarkable relations in this quantum Grothendieck ring.

In this paper, we introduce a model of quantum concurrent program, which can
be used to model the behaviour of reactive quantum systems and to design
quantum compilers. We investigate quantum temporal logic, QTL, for the
specification of quantum concurrent systems by suggesting the time-dependence
of events. QTL employs the projections on subspaces as atomic propositions,
which was established in the Birkhoff and von Neumann's classic treatise on
quantum logic. For deterministic functional quantum program, We prove a quantum
B\"{o}hm-Jacopini theorem which states that any such program is equivalent to a
Q-While program. The decidability of basic QTL formulae for general quantum
concurrent program is studied.

We introduce Quantum Graph Neural Networks (QGNN), a new class of quantum
neural network ansatze which are tailored to represent quantum processes which
have a graph structure, and are particularly suitable to be executed on
distributed quantum systems over a quantum network. Along with this general
class of ansatze, we introduce further specialized architectures, namely,
Quantum Graph Recurrent Neural Networks (QGRNN) and Quantum Graph Convolutional
Neural Networks (QGCNN). We provide four example applications of QGNNs:
learning Hamiltonian dynamics of quantum systems, learning how to create
multipartite entanglement in a quantum network, unsupervised learning for
spectral clustering, and supervised learning for graph isomorphism
classification.

Lectures given at the Theoretical Advanced Study Institute (TASI 2020), 1-26
June 2020. The topics covered include quantum circuits, entanglement, quantum
teleportation, Bell inequalities, quantum entropy and decoherence, classical
versus quantum measurement, the area law for entanglement entropy in quantum
field theory, and simulating quantum field theory on a quantum computer. Along
the way we confront the fundamental sloppiness of how we all learned (and some
of us taught) quantum mechanics in college. Links to a Python notebook and
Mathematica notebooks will allow the reader to reproduce and extend the
calculations, as well as perform five experiments on a quantum simulator.

Quantum error correction is an indispensable ingredient for scalable quantum
computing. In this Perspective we discuss a particular class of quantum codes
called low-density parity-check (LDPC) quantum codes. The codes we discuss are
alternatives to the surface code, which is the currently leading candidate to
implement quantum fault-tolerance. We introduce the zoo of LDPC quantum codes
and discuss their potential for making quantum computers robust against noise.
In particular, we explain recent advances in the theory of LDPC quantum codes
related to certain product constructions and discuss open problems in the
field.

This article reviews the extraordinary features of quantum information
predicted by the quantum formalism, which, combined with the development of
modern quantum technologies, have opened new horizons in quantum physics that
can potentially affect various areas of our live, leading to new technologies
such as quantum cybersecurity, quantum communication, quantum metrology, and
quantum computation.

An exposition of quantum permutation groups where an alternative to the
'Gelfand picture' of compact quantum groups is proposed. This point of view is
inspired by algebraic quantum mechanics and posits that states on the algebra
of continuous functions on a quantum permutation group can be interpreted as
quantum permutations. This interpretation allows talk of an element of a
compact quantum permutation group, and allows a clear understanding of the
difference between deterministic, random, and quantum permutations. The
interpretation is illustrated with the Kac-Paljutkin quantum group, the duals
of finite groups, as well as by other finite quantum group phenomena.

Because of the efficiency of modeling fuzziness and vagueness, Z-number plays
an important role in real practice. However, Z-numbers, defined in the real
number field, lack the ability to process the quantum information in quantum
environment. It is reasonable to generalize Z-number into its quantum
counterpart. In this paper, we propose quantum Z-numbers (QZNs), which are the
quantum generalization of Z-numbers. In addition, seven basic quantum fuzzy
operations of QZNs and their corresponding quantum circuits are presented and
illustrated by numerical examples. Moreover, based on QZNs, a novel quantum
multi-attributes decision making (MADM) algorithm is proposed and applied in
medical diagnosis. The results show that, with the help of quantum computation,
the proposed algorithm can make diagnoses correctly and efficiently.

We explore the implementation of hybridly protected quantum operations
combining the merits of holonomy, dynamical decoupling approach and
dephasing-free feature based on a simple and experimentally achievable spin
model. The implementation of the quantum operations can be achieved in
different physical systems with controllable parameters. The protected quantum
operations are hence controllable, well-suited for resolving various quantum
computation tasks, such as executing quantum error-correction codes or quantum
error mitigation. Our scheme is based on experimentally achievable Hamiltonian
with reduced requirement of computational resources and thus, it brings us
closer towards realizing protected quantum operations for resolving quantum
computation tasks in near-term quantum devices.

We look into multipartite quantum states on which quantum cryptographic
protocols including quantum key distribution and quantum secret sharing can be
perfectly performed, and define the quantum cryptographic resource distillable
rate as the asymptotic rate at which such multipartite state can be distilled
from a given multipartite state. Investigating several relations between
entanglement and the rate, we show that there exists a multipartite bound
entangled state whose quantum cryptographic resource distillable rate is
strictly positive, that is, there exists a multipartite entangled state which
is not distillable, but can be useful for quantum cryptography such as quantum
key distribution and quantum secret sharing.

The deployment of intermediate- and large-scale quantum devices necessitates
the development of efficient full state tomographical techniques for quantum
benchmarks. Here, we introduce a matrix filling-based method for tomography of
pure quantum states, called the matrix-completion quantum state tomography.
This method requires only 2n + 1 local Pauli operators and minimal
post-processing for n-qubit states. Numerical results show that our method is
highly efficient on superconducting real quantum devices and achieves better
fidelity estimates of multiqubit quantum states as compared to contemporary
pure state tomography methods. These desirable features of the
matrix-completion quantum state tomography protocol make it suitable for the
benchmarking of intermediate- and large-scale quantum devices dealing mainly
with pure quantum states.

Quantum metrology is an auspicious discipline of quantum information which is
currently witnessing a surge of experimental breakthroughs and theoretical
developments. The main goal of quantum metrology is to estimate unknown
parameters as accurately as possible. By using quantum resources as probes, it
is possible to attain a measurement precision that would be otherwise
impossible using the best classical strategies. For example, with respect to
the task of phase estimation, the maximum precision (the Heisenberg limit) is a
quadratic gain in precision with respect to the best classical strategies. Of
course, quantum metrology is not the sole quantum technology currently
undergoing advances. The theme of this thesis is exploring how quantum
metrology can be enhanced with other quantum techniques when appropriate,
namely: graph states, error correction and cryptography.

In a post-quantum world, where attackers may have access to full-scale
quantum computers, all classical password-based authentication schemes will be
compromised. Quantum copy-protection prevents adversaries from making copies of
existing quantum software; we suggest this as a possible approach for designing
post-quantum-secure password authentication systems. In this paper, we show an
implementation of quantum copy-protection for password verification on IBM
quantum computers. We also share our quantum computation results and analyses,
as well as lessons learned.

In this paper, a kind of quantum dialogue (QD) protocols without information
leakage assisted by quantum operation is proposed. The participant in charge of
preparation can automatically know the collapsed states after quantum operation
performed on the prepared quantum states. The other participant is able to know
the collapsed states derived from the prepared quantum states through quantum
measurement. The information leakage problem is avoided by means of imposing
auxiliary quantum operation on the prepared quantum states.

In this Near Intermediate-Scale Quantum era, there are two types of near-term
quantum devices available on cloud: superconducting quantum processing units
(QPUs) based on the discrete variable model and linear optics (photonics) QPUs
based on the continuous variable (CV) model. Quantum computation in the
discrete variable model is performed in a finite dimensional quantum state
space and the CV model in an infinite dimensional space. In implementing
quantum algorithms, the CV model offers more quantum gates that are not
available in the discrete variable model. CV-based photonic quantum computers
provide additional flexibility of controlling the length of the output vectors
of quantum circuits, using different methods of measurement and the notion of
cutoff dimension.

The quantum speed limit provides fundamental bound on how fast a quantum
system can evolve between the initial and the final states. For the unitary
evolution, the celebrated Mandelstam-Tamm (MT) bound has been widely studied
for various systems. Here, we prove a stronger quantum speed limit (SQSL) for
all quantum systems undergoing arbitrary unitary evolution and show that the MT
bound is a special case of the stronger quantum speed limit. We apply our
result for single system as well as for composite systems in separable and
entangled states and show that the new bound is indeed tight. The stronger
quantum speed limit will have wide range of applications in quantum control,
quantum computing and quantum information processing.

The possibility of quantum computing has been proposed decades ago, at least
as far back as the 1980s, and distributed quantum computing has been studied
around two decades ago. Recent times have seen experimental successes and
advances in quantum computer hardware and in quantum networking, leading
towards the quantum Internet. We provide in this paper an overview of concepts
and ideas in distributed quantum computing since over two decades ago as well
as look at recent efforts in the area, and consider how, with the development
of the quantum Internet, distributed quantum computing is evolving into quantum
Internet computing.

We report the digital quantum simulation of a hamiltonian involved in the
generation of quantum entanglement by gravitational means. In particular, we
focus on a pair of quantum harmonic oscillators, whose interaction via a
quantum gravitational field generates single-mode squeezing in both modes at
the same time, a non-standard process in quantum optics. We perform a
boson-qubit mapping and a digital gate decomposition specific for IBM quantum
devices. We use error mitigation and post-selection to achieve high-fidelity,
accessing a parameter regime out of direct experimental reach.

The quantum density matrix generalises the classical concept of probability
distribution to quantum theory. It gives the complete description of a quantum
state as well as the observable quantities that can be extracted from it. Its
mathematical structure is described, with applications to understanding quantum
correlations, illustrating quantum chaos and its unravelling, and developing
software simulators for noisy quantum systems with efficient quantum state
tomography.

At the core of quantum photonic information processing and sensing, two major
building pillarsare single-photon emitters and single-photon detectors. In this
review, we systematically summarize the working theory, material platform,
fabrication process, and game-changing applications enabled by state-of-the-art
quantum dots in nanowire emitters and superconducting nanowire single-photon
detectors. Such nanowire-based quantum hardware offers promising properties for
modern quantum optics experiments.We highlight several burgeoning quantum
photonics applications using nanowires and discuss development trends of
integrated quantum photonics. Also, we propose quantum information processing
and sensing experiments for the quantum optics community, and future
interdisciplinary applications.

The variance of quantum channels involving a mixed state gives a hybrid of
classical and quantum uncertainties. We seek certain decomposition of variance
into classical and quantum parts in terms of the Wigner-Yanase skew
information. Generalizing the uncertainty relations for quantum observables to
quantum channels, we introduce a new quantity with better quantum mechanical
nature to describe the uncertainty relations for quantum channels. We derive
several uncertainty relations for quantum channels via variances and the
Wigner-Yanase skew information.

We study distributed quantum computing (DQC), the use of multiple quantum
processing units to simulate quantum circuits and solve quantum algorithms. The
nodes of a distributed quantum computer consist of both local qubits, essential
for local circuit operations, and communication qubits, extending circuit
capabilities across nodes. We created a distributed quantum circuit simulator
(DQCS) written in Qiskit, which we use to simulate a quantum circuit on
multiple nodes, show its applicability for distributed quantum phase
estimation, amplitude estimation. We use DQCS to study the scaling of DQC for
the quantum state preparation of a probability distribution.

The standard generic quantum computer model is studied analytically and
numerically and the border for emergence of quantum chaos, induced by
imperfections and residual inter-qubit couplings, is determined. This
phenomenon appears in an isolated quantum computer without any external
decoherence. The onset of quantum chaos leads to quantum computer hardware
melting, strong quantum entropy growth and destruction of computer operability.
The time scales for development of quantum chaos and ergodicity are determined.
In spite the fact that this phenomenon is rather dangerous for quantum
computing it is shown that the quantum chaos border for inter-qubit coupling is
exponentially larger than the energy level spacing between quantum computer
eigenstates and drops only linearly with the number of qubits n. As a result
the ideal multi-qubit structure of the computer remains rather robust against
imperfections. This opens a broad parameter region for a possible realization
of quantum computer. The obtained results are related to the recent studies of
quantum chaos in such many-body systems as nuclei, complex atoms and molecules,
finite Fermi systems and quantum spin glass shards which are also reviewed in
the paper.

Full formal descriptions of algorithms making use of quantum principles must
take into account both quantum and classical computing components and assemble
them so that they communicate and cooperate. Moreover, to model concurrent and
distributed quantum computations, as well as quantum communication protocols,
quantum to quantum communications which move qubits physically from one place
to another must also be taken into account. Inspired by classical process
algebras, which provide a framework for modeling cooperating computations, a
process algebraic notation is defined, named QPAlg for Quantum Process Algebra,
which provides a homogeneous style to formal descriptions of concurrent and
distributed computations comprising both quantum and classical parts. On the
quantum side, QPAlg provides quantum variables, operations on quantum variables
(unitary operators and measurement observables), as well as new forms of
communications involving the quantum world. The operational semantics makes
sure that these quantum objects, operations and communications operate
according to the postulates of quantum mechanics.

Basic concepts of quantum theory of information, principles of quantum
calculations and the possibility of creation on this basis unique on
calculation power and functioning principle device, named quantum computer, are
briefly reviewed. The main blocks of quantum logic, schemes of implementation
of quantum calculations, as well as some known today effective quantum
algorithms, called to realize advantages of quantum calculations upon
classical, are concerned. Among them special place is taken by Shor's algorithm
of number factorization, Grover's algorithm of unsorted database search and,
finally, the most promising in application methods of quantum phenomena
simulation, particularly quantum chaos. The most perspective methods of
experimental realization of quantum computer, namely nuclear-magnetic resonance
and trapped ions realizations, are discussed. Phenomena of decoherence, its
influence on quantum computer stability and methods of quantum error correction
are described.

The DiVincenzo criteria for implementing a quantum computer have been seminal
in focussing both experimental and theoretical research in quantum information
processing. These criteria were formulated specifically for the circuit model
of quantum computing. However, several new models for quantum computing
(paradigms) have been proposed that do not seem to fit the criteria well. The
question is therefore what are the general criteria for implementing quantum
computers. To this end, a formal operational definition of a quantum computer
is introduced. It is then shown that according to this definition a device is a
quantum computer if it obeys the following four criteria: Any quantum computer
must (1) have a quantum memory; (2) facilitate a controlled quantum evolution
of the quantum memory; (3) include a method for cooling the quantum memory; and
(4) provide a readout mechanism for subsets of the quantum memory. The criteria
are met when the device is scalable and operates fault-tolerantly. We discuss
various existing quantum computing paradigms, and how they fit within this
framework. Finally, we lay out a roadmap for selecting an avenue towards
building a quantum computer. This is summarized in a decision tree intended to
help experimentalists determine the most natural paradigm given a particular
physical implementation.

The theory of quantum gravity is aimed to fuse general relativity with
quantum theory into a more fundamental framework. The space of quantum gravity
provides both the non-fixed causality of general relativity and the quantum
uncertainty of quantum mechanics. In a quantum gravity scenario, the causal
structure is indefinite and the processes are causally non-separable. Here, we
provide a model for the information processing structure of quantum gravity. We
show that the quantum gravity environment is an information resource-pool from
which valuable information can be extracted. We analyze the structure of the
quantum gravity space and the entanglement of the space-time geometry. We study
the information transfer capabilities of quantum gravity space and define the
quantum gravity channel. We reveal that the quantum gravity space acts as a
background noise on the local environment states. We characterize the
properties of the noise of the quantum gravity space and show that it allows
the separate local parties to simulate remote outputs from the local
environment state, through the process of remote simulation.

In the quest to build a practical quantum computer, it is important to use
efficient schemes for enacting the elementary quantum operations from which
quantum computer programs are constructed. The opposing requirements of
well-protected quantum data and fast quantum operations must be balanced to
maintain the integrity of the quantum information throughout the computation.
One important approach to quantum operations is to use an extra quantum system
- an ancilla - to interact with the quantum data register. Ancillas can mediate
interactions between separated quantum registers, and by using fresh ancillas
for each quantum operation, data integrity can be preserved for longer. This
review provides an overview of the basic concepts of the gate model quantum
computer architecture, including the different possible forms of information
encodings - from base two up to continuous variables - and a more detailed
description of how the main types of ancilla-mediated quantum operations
provide efficient quantum gates.

Demonstrating quantum supremacy, a complexity-guaranteed quantum advantage
against over the best classical algorithms by using less universal quantum
devices, is an important near-term milestone for quantum information
processing. Here we develop a threshold theorem for quantum supremacy with
noisy quantum circuits in the pre-threshold region, where quantum error
correction does not work directly. We show that, even in such a region, we can
virtually simulate quantum error correction by postselection. This allows us to
show that the output sampled from the noisy quantum circuits (without
postselection) cannot be simulated efficiently by classical computers based on
a stable complexity theoretical conjecture, i.e., non-collapse of the
polynomial hierarchy. By applying this to fault-tolerant quantum computation
with the surface codes, we obtain the threshold value $2.84\%$ for quantum
supremacy, which is much higher than the standard threshold $0.75\%$ for
universal fault-tolerant quantum computation with the same circuit-level noise
model. Moreover, contrast to the standard noise threshold, the origin of
quantum supremacy in noisy quantum circuits is quite clear; the threshold is
determined purely by the threshold of magic state distillation, which is
essential to gain a quantum advantage.

Quantum metrology fundamentally relies upon the efficient management of
quantum uncertainties. We show that, under equilibrium conditions, the
management of quantum noise becomes extremely flexible around the quantum
critical point of a quantum many-body system: this is due to the critical
divergence of quantum fluctuations of the order parameter, which, via
Heisenberg's inequalities, may lead to the critical suppression of the
fluctuations in conjugate observables. Taking the quantum Ising model as the
paradigmatic incarnation of quantum phase transitions, we show that it exhibits
quantum critical squeezing of one spin component, providing a scaling for the
precision of interferometric parameter estimation which, in dimensions $d \geq
2$, lies in between the standard quantum limit and the Heisenberg limit.
Quantum critical squeezing saturates the maximum metrological gain allowed by
the quantum Fisher information in $d=\infty$ (or with infinite-range
interactions) at all temperatures, and it approaches closely the bound in a
broad range of temperatures in $d=2$ and 3. This demonstrates the immediate
metrological potential of equilibrium many-body states close to quantum
criticality, which are accessible \emph{e.g.} to atomic quantum simulators via
elementary adiabatic protocols.

Public key quantum money can be seen as a version of the quantum no-cloning
theorem that holds even when the quantum states can be verified by the
adversary. In this work, investigate quantum lightning, a formalization of
"collision-free quantum money" defined by Lutomirski et al. [ICS'10], where
no-cloning holds even when the adversary herself generates the quantum state to
be cloned. We then study quantum money and quantum lightning, showing the
following results:
  - We demonstrate the usefulness of quantum lightning by showing several
potential applications, such as generating random strings with a proof of
entropy, to completely decentralized cryptocurrency without a block-chain,
where transactions is instant and local.
  - We give win-win results for quantum money/lightning, showing that either
signatures/hash functions/commitment schemes meet very strong recently proposed
notions of security, or they yield quantum money or lightning.
  - We construct quantum lightning under the assumed multi-collision resistance
of random degree-2 systems of polynomials.
  - We show that instantiating the quantum money scheme of Aaronson and
Christiano [STOC'12] with indistinguishability obfuscation that is secure
against quantum computers yields a secure quantum money scheme

One-dimensional discrete-time quantum walk has played an important role in
development of quantum algorithms and protocols for different quantum
simulations. The speedup observed in quantum walk algorithms is attributed to
quantum interference and coherence of the wave packet in position space.
Similarly, localization in quantum walk due to disorder is also attributed to
quantum interference effect. Therefore, it is intriguing to have a closer look
and understand the way quantum interference manifests in different forms of
quantum walk dynamics. Quantum coherence in the system is responsible for
quantum interference in the system. Here we will use coherence measure to
quantify the interference in the discrete-time quantum walk. We show coherence
in the position and coin space, together and independently, and present the
contribution of coherence to the quantum interference in the system. This study
helps us to differentiate the localization seen in one dimensional
discrete-time quantum walks due to different forms of disorders and topological
effects.

Future scalable photonic quantum information processing relies on the ability
of integrating multiple interacting quantum emitters into a single chip.
Quantum dots provide ideal on-chip quantum light sources. However, achieving
quantum interaction between multiple quantum dots on-a-chip is a challenging
task due to the randomness in their frequency and position, requiring local
tuning technique and long-range quantum interaction. Here, we demonstrate
quantum interactions between distant two quantum dots on a nanophotonic
waveguide. We achieve a photon-mediated long-range interaction by integrating
the quantum dots to the same optical mode of a nanophotonic waveguide and
overcome spectral mismatch by incorporating on-chip thermal tuners. We observe
their quantum interactions of the form of super-radiant emission, where the two
dots collectively emit faster than each dot individually. Creating
super-radiant emission from integrated quantum emitters could enable compact
chip-integrated photonic structures that exhibit long-range quantum
interactions. Therefore, these results represent a major step towards
establishing photonic quantum information processors composed of multiple
interacting quantum emitters on a semiconductor chip.

Quantum-to-classical transition is a fundamental open question in physics
frontier. Quantum decoherence theory points out that the inevitable interaction
with environment is a sink carrying away quantum coherence, which is
responsible for the suppression of quantum superposition in open quantum
system. Recently, quantum Darwinism theory further extends the role of
environment, serving as communication channel, to explain the classical
objectivity emerging in quantum measurement process. Here, we used a six-photon
quantum simulator to investigate classical and quantum information
proliferation in quantum Darwinism process. In the simulation, many
environmental photons are scattered from an observed quantum system and they
are collected and used to infer the system's state. We observed redundancy of
system's classical information and suppression of quantum correlation in the
fragments of environmental photons. Our results experimentally show that the
classical objectivity of quantum system can be established through quantum
Darwinism mechanism.

We point out that realization of quantum communication protocols in
programmable quantum computers provides a deep benchmark for capabilities of
real quantum hardware. Particularly, it is prospective to focus on measurements
of entropy-based characteristics of the performance and to explore whether a
"quantum regime" is preserved. We perform proof-of-principle implementations of
superdense coding and quantum key distribution BB84 using 5- and 16-qubit
superconducting quantum processors of IBM Quantum Experience. We focus on the
ability of these quantum machines to provide an efficient transfer of
information between distant parts of the processors by placing Alice and Bob at
different qubits of the devices. We also examine the ability of quantum devices
to serve as quantum memory and to store entangled states used in quantum
communication. Another issue we address is an error mitigation. Although it is
at odds with benchmarking, this problem is nevertheless of importance in a
general context of quantum computation with noisy quantum devices. We perform
such a mitigation and noticeably improve some results.

Counter-intuitively, quantum mechanics enables quantum particles to propagate
simultaneously among multiple space-time trajectories. Hence, a quantum
information carrier can travel through different communication channels in a
quantum superposition of different orders, so that the relative time-order of
the communication channels becomes indefinite. This is realized by utilizing a
quantum device known as quantum switch. In this paper, we investigate, from a
communication-engineering perspective, the use of the quantum switch within the
quantum teleportation process, one of the key functionalities of the Quantum
Internet. Specifically, a theoretical analysis is conducted to quantify the
performance gain that can be achieved by employing a quantum switch for the
entanglement distribution process within the quantum teleportation with respect
to the case of absence of quantum switch. This analysis reveals that, by
utilizing the quantum switch, the quantum teleportation is heralded as a
noiseless communication process with a probability that, remarkably and
counter-intuitively, increases with the noise levels affecting the
communication channels considered in the indefinite-order time combination.

Quantum Fisher information matrix (QFIM) is a core concept in theoretical
quantum metrology due to the significant importance of quantum Cram\'{e}r-Rao
bound in quantum parameter estimation. However, studies in recent years have
revealed wide connections between QFIM and other aspects of quantum mechanics,
including quantum thermodynamics, quantum phase transition, entanglement
witness, quantum speed limit and non-Markovianity. These connections indicate
that QFIM is more than a concept in quantum metrology, but rather a fundamental
quantity in quantum mechanics. In this paper, we summarize the properties and
existing calculation techniques of QFIM for various cases, and review the
development of QFIM in some aspects of quantum mechanics apart from quantum
metrology. On the other hand, as the main application of QFIM, the second part
of this paper reviews the quantum multiparameter Cram\'{e}r-Rao bound, its
attainability condition and the associated optimal measurements. Moreover,
recent developments in a few typical scenarios of quantum multiparameter
estimation and the quantum advantages are also thoroughly discussed in this
part.

We investigate the dynamics of quantum correlations (QC) under the effects of
reservoir memory, as a resource for quantum information and computation tasks.
Quantum correlations of two-qubit systems are used for implementing quantum
teleportation successfully, and for investigating how teleportation fidelity,
violation of Bell-CHSH inequality, quantum steering and entanglement are
connected with each other under the influence of noisy environments. Both
Markovian and non-Markovian channels are considered, and it is shown that the
decay and revival of correlations follow the hierarchy of quantum correlations
in the state space. Noise tolerance of quantum correlations are checked for
different types of unital and non-unital quantum channels, with and without
memory. The quantum speed limit time $(\tau_{QSL})$ is investigated from the
perspective of memory of quantum noise, and the corresponding dynamics is used
to analyze the evolution of quantum correlations. We establish the connection
between information backflow, quantum speed limit time and dynamics of quantum
correlations for non-Markovian quantum channels.

Quantum machine learning has emerged as an exciting and promising paradigm
inside quantum technologies. It may permit, on the one hand, to carry out more
efficient machine learning calculations by means of quantum devices, while, on
the other hand, to employ machine learning techniques to better control quantum
systems. Inside quantum machine learning, quantum reinforcement learning aims
at developing "intelligent" quantum agents that may interact with the outer
world and adapt to it, with the strategy of achieving some final goal. Another
paradigm inside quantum machine learning is that of quantum autoencoders, which
may allow one for employing fewer resources in a quantum device via a training
process. Moreover, the field of quantum biomimetics aims at establishing
analogies between biological and quantum systems, to look for previously
inadvertent connections that may enable useful applications. Two recent
examples are the concepts of quantum artificial life, as well as of quantum
memristors. In this Perspective, we give an overview of these topics,
describing the related research carried out by the scientific community.

Quantum mechanics provides a disembodied way to transfer quantum information
from one quantum object to another. In theory, this quantum information
transfer can occur between quantum objects of any dimension, yet the reported
experiments of quantum information transfer to date have mainly focused on the
cases where the quantum objects have the same dimension. Here we theoretically
propose and experimentally demonstrate a scheme for quantum information
transfer between quantum objects of different dimensions.By using an optical
qubit-ququart entangling gate, we observe the transfer of quantum information
between two photons with different dimensions, including the flow of quantum
information from a four-dimensional photon to a two-dimensional photon and vice
versa.The fidelities of the quantum information transfer range from 0.700 to
0.917, all above the classical limit of 2/3. Our work sheds light on a new
direction for quantum information transfer and demonstrates our ability to
implement entangling operations beyond two-level quantum systems.

Using quantum algorithms to simulate complex physical processes and
correlations in quantum matter has been a major direction of quantum computing
research, towards the promise of a quantum advantage over classical approaches.
In this work we develop a generalized quantum algorithm to simulate any
dynamical process represented by either the operator sum representation or the
Lindblad master equation. We then demonstrate the quantum algorithm by
simulating the dynamics of the Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) complex on the IBM
QASM quantum simulator. This work represents a first demonstration of a quantum
algorithm for open quantum dynamics with a moderately sophisticated dynamical
process involving a realistic biological structure. We discuss the complexity
of the quantum algorithm relative to the classical method for the same purpose,
presenting a decisive query complexity advantage of the quantum approach based
on the unique property of quantum measurement.

The operating system is designed to manage the hardware and software
resources of a computer. With the development of quantum computing, the
management of quantum resources and cooperation between quantum systems and
other computing resources (e.g. CPU, GPU and FPGA etc.) become the key
challenge for the application of quantum computing to solve real world
problems. In this paper we propose a quantum operating system, Origin Pilot.
Origin Pilot includes the module of quantum task scheduling, quantum resource
management, quantum program compilation and qubits' automatic calibration. With
these modules, Origin Pilot can manage the quantum computing resources and
solve the multi-quantum processor scheduling problem. It can also allow the
parallel execution of multiple quantum programs and calibrate the quantum
resource effectively. Thus, the performance of resources is guaranteed and the
resource utilization is improved. By comparing the results with and without
Origin Pilot, we evaluate the impact on a quantum circuit's fidelity of qubits
mapping algorithm. We also evaluate the effectiveness of automatic calibration
and parallel execution of multi-quantum processors. Finally, Origin Pilot can
be easily customized for hybrid computing resources.

The emerging field of quantum machine learning has the potential of
revolutionizing our perspectives of quantum computing and artificial
intelligence. In the predominantly empirical realm of quantum machine learning,
a theoretical void persists. This paper addresses the gap by highlighting the
quantum cross entropy, a pivotal counterpart to the classical cross entropy. We
establish quantum cross entropy's role in quantum data compression, a
fundamental machine learning task, by demonstrating that it acts as the
compression rate for sub-optimal quantum source coding. Our approach involves a
novel, universal quantum data compression protocol based on the quantum
generalization of variable-length coding and the principle of quantum strong
typicality. This reveals that quantum cross entropy can effectively serve as a
loss function in quantum machine learning algorithms. Furthermore, we
illustrate that the minimum of quantum cross entropy aligns with the von
Neumann entropy, reinforcing its role as the optimal compression rate and
underscoring its significance in advancing our understanding of quantum machine
learning's theoretical framework.

Following the rising interest in quantum information science, the extension
of a heat engine to the quantum regime by exploring microscopic quantum systems
has seen a boom of interest in the last decade. Although quantum coherence in
the quantum system of the working medium has been investigated to play a
nontrivial role, a complete understanding of the intrinsic quantum advantage of
quantum heat engines remains elusive. We experimentally demonstrate that the
quantum correlation between the working medium and the thermal bath is critical
for the quantum advantage of a quantum Szilard engine, where quantum coherence
in the working medium is naturally excluded. By quantifying the non-classical
correlation through quantum steering, we reveal that the heat engine is quantum
when the demon can truly steer the working medium. The average work obtained by
taking different ways of work extraction on the working medium can be used to
verify the real quantum Szilard engine.

The inherent noise and complexity of quantum communication networks leads to
challenges in designing quantum network protocols using classical methods. To
address this issue, we develop a variational quantum optimization framework
that simulates quantum networks on quantum hardware and optimizes the network
using differential programming techniques. We use our hybrid framework to
optimize nonlocality in noisy quantum networks. On the noisy IBM quantum
computers, we demonstrate our framework's ability to maximize quantum
nonlocality. On a classical simulator with a static noise model, we investigate
the noise robustness of quantum nonlocality with respect to unital and
nonunital channels. In both cases, we find that our optimization methods can
reproduce known results, while uncovering interesting phenomena. When unital
noise is present we find numerical evidence suggesting that maximally entangled
state preparations yield maximal nonlocality. When nonunital noise is present
we find that nonmaximally entangled states can yield maximal nonlocality. Thus,
we show that variational quantum optimization is a practical design tool for
quantum networks in the near-term. In the long-term, our variational quantum
optimization techniques show promise of scaling beyond classical approaches and
can be deployed on quantum network hardware to optimize quantum communication
protocols against their inherent noise.

In this article, we survey the existing quantum physics related games and
based on them propose a definition for the concept of quantum games. We define
quantum games as any type of rule-based games that use the principles or
reference the theory of quantum physics or quantum phenomena through any of
three proposed dimensions: the perceivable dimension of quantum physics, the
dimension of quantum technologies, and the dimension of scientific purposes
like citizen science or education. We also discuss the concept of quantum
computer games, games on quantum computers and discuss the definitions for the
concept of science games. At the same time, there are various games exploring
quantum physics and quantum computing through digital, analogue, and hybrid
means with diverse incentives driving their development. As interest in games
as educational tools for supporting quantum literacy grows, understanding the
diverse landscape of quantum games becomes increasingly important. We propose
that three dimensions of quantum games identified in this article are used for
designing, analysing and defining the phenomenon of quantum games.

Quantum particle statistics fundamentally controls the way particles
interact, and plays an essential role in determining the properties of the
system at low temperature. Here we study how the quantum statistics affects the
computational power of quantum annealing. We propose an annealing Hamiltonian
describing quantum particles moving on a square lattice and compare the
computational performance of the atomic quantum annealers between two
statistically-different components: spinless fermions and hard-core bosons. In
addition, we take an Ising quantum annealer driven by traditional
transverse-field quantum fluctuations as a baseline. The potential of our
quantum annealers to solve combinatorial optimization problems is demonstrated
on random 3-regular graph partitioning. We find that the bosonic quantum
annealer outperforms the fermionic case. The superior performance of the
bosonic quantum annealer is attributed to larger excitation gaps and the
consequent smoother adiabatic transformation of its instantaneous quantum
ground states. Along our annealing schedule, the bosonic quantum annealer is
less affected by the glass order and explores the Hilbert space more
efficiently. Our theoretical finding could shed light on constructing atomic
quantum annealers using Rydberg atoms in optical lattices.

A quantum internet is the holy grail of quantum information processing,
enabling the deployment of a broad range of quantum technologies and protocols
on a global scale. However, numerous challenges exist before the quantum
internet can become a reality. Perhaps the most crucial of these is the
realization of a quantum repeater, an essential component in the long-distance
transmission of quantum information. As the analog of a classical repeater,
extender, or booster, the quantum repeater works to overcome loss and noise in
the quantum channels comprising a quantum network. Here, we review the
conceptual frameworks and architectures for quantum repeaters, as well as the
experimental progress towards their realization. We also discuss the various
near-term proposals to overcome the limits to the communication rates set by
point-to-point quantum communication. Finally, we overview how quantum
repeaters fit within the broader challenge of designing and implementing a
quantum internet.

High-fidelity quantum gate design is important for various quantum
technologies, such as quantum computation and quantum communication. Numerous
control policies for quantum gate design have been proposed given a dynamical
model of the quantum system of interest. However, a quantum system is often
highly sensitive to noise, and obtaining its accurate modeling can be difficult
for many practical applications. Thus, the control policy based on a quantum
system model may be unpractical for quantum gate design. Also, quantum
measurements collapse quantum states, which makes it challenging to obtain
information through measurements during the control process. In this paper, we
propose a novel training framework using deep reinforcement learning for
model-free quantum control. The proposed framework relies only on the
measurement at the end of the control process and offers the ability to find
the optimal control policy without access to quantum systems during the
learning process. The effectiveness of the proposed technique is numerically
demonstrated for model-free quantum gate design and quantum gate calibration
using off-policy reinforcement learning algorithms.

Quantum measurement is a fundamental concept in the field of quantum
mechanics. The action of quantum measurement, leading the superposition state
of the measured quantum system into a definite output state, not only
reconciles contradictions between quantum and classical mechanics but also
facilitates quantum state manipulations, including reading and resetting.
Despite its significance, four fundamental issues -- randomness,
instantaneousness, irreversibility, and preferred-basis -- continue to pose
significant challenges to the broader application of quantum measurement and
our overall understanding of quantum mechanics. In this work, we employ a new
space-time approach to relativistic quantum mechanics to address these issues
systematically. Our approach provides a comprehensive elucidation of the
intricate connections between quantum measurement and quantum unitary
evolution, as well as an in-depth analysis for the interdependence of non-local
correlations and relativistic theories. We thereby reveal a more fundamental
dynamical theory, beyond the traditional time-evolution equation in quantum
mechanics, where the axioms of quantum measurement naturally emerge as a
corollary. These findings contribute to the advancement of related fields, and
our work holds potential implications for future research and applications in
the realm of quantum mechanics.

Quantum metrology pursues the physical realization of higher-precision
measurements to physical quantities than the classically achievable limit by
exploiting quantum features, such as entanglement and squeezing, as resources.
It has potential applications in developing next-generation frequency
standards, magnetometers, radar, and navigation. However, the ubiquitous
decoherence in the quantum world degrades the quantum resources and forces the
precision back to or even worse than the classical limit, which is called the
no-go theorem of noisy quantum metrology and greatly hinders its applications.
Therefore, how to realize the promised performance of quantum metrology in
realistic noisy situations attracts much attention in recent years. We will
review the principle, categories, and applications of quantum metrology.
Special attention will be paid to different quantum resources that can bring
quantum superiority in enhancing sensitivity. Then, we will introduce the no-go
theorem of noisy quantum metrology and its active control under different kinds
of noise-induced decoherence situations.

Quantum phase transitions are highly remarkable phenomena manifesting in
quantum many-body systems. However, their precise identifications in
equilibrium systems pose significant theoretical and experimental challenges.
Thus far, nonequilibrium detection protocols utilizing global quantum quenches
have been proposed, yet the real-time signatures of these transitions are
imprinted in intricate spatiotemporal correlations, compromising the simplicity
and versatility of the protocols. Here, we propose a framework for dynamical
detection of quantum phase transitions based on local quantum quenches. While
the resultant dynamics are influenced by both the local quench operation and
the intrinsic dynamics of the quantum system, the effects of the former are
exclusively extracted through the cutting-edge framework called quantum
reservoir probing (QRP). We illustrate that the impacts of the local quenches
vary across different quantum phases, and are subdued by intrinsic fluctuations
amplified in proximity to quantum critical points. Consequently, the QRP can
detect quantum phase transitions in the paradigmatic integrable and
nonintegrable quantum systems, all while utilizing single-site operators.
Furthermore, we also show that topological quantum phase transitions can be
detected using the identical framework. The broad applicability of the QRP,
along with its experimental feasibility and design flexibility, highlights its
universal effectiveness in identifying various quantum phase transitions.

Photonic quantum computation refers to quantum computation that uses photons
as the physical system for doing the quantum computation. Photons are ideal
quantum systems because they operate at room temperature, and photonic
technologies are relatively mature. The field is largely divided between
discrete- and continuous-variable photonic quantum computation. In
discrete-variable (DV) photonic quantum computation, quantum information is
represented by one or more modal properties (e.g. polarization) that take on
distinct values from a finite set. Quantum information is processed via
operations on these modal properties and eventually measured using single
photon detectors. In continuous-variable (CV) photonic quantum computation,
quantum information is represented by properties of the electromagnetic field
that take on any value in an interval (e.g. position). The electromagnetic
field is transformed via Gaussian and non-Gaussian operations, and then
detected via homodyne detection. Both CV and DV photonic quantum computation
have been realized experimentally and they each have a unique set of challenges
that need to be overcome to achieve scalable photonic universal quantum
computation. This article is an introduction to photonic quantum computing,
charting its development from the early days of linear optical quantum
computing to recent developments in quantum machine learning.

We extract a novel quantum programming paradigm - superposition of programs -
from the design idea of a popular class of quantum algorithms, namely quantum
walk-based algorithms. The generality of this paradigm is guaranteed by the
universality of quantum walks as a computational model. A new quantum
programming language QGCL is then proposed to support the paradigm of
superposition of programs. This language can be seen as a quantum extension of
Dijkstra's GCL (Guarded Command Language). Surprisingly, alternation in GCL
splits into two different notions in the quantum setting: classical alternation
(of quantum programs) and quantum alternation, with the latter being introduced
in QGCL for the first time. Quantum alternation is the key program construct
for realizing the paradigm of superposition of programs.
  The denotational semantics of QGCL are defined by introducing a new
mathematical tool called the guarded composition of operator-valued functions.
Then the weakest precondition semantics of QGCL can straightforwardly derived.
Another very useful program construct in realizing the quantum programming
paradigm of superposition of programs, called quantum choice, can be easily
defined in terms of quantum alternation. The relation between quantum choices
and probabilistic choices is clarified through defining the notion of local
variables. We derive a family of algebraic laws for QGCL programs that can be
used in program verification, transformations and compilation. The expressive
power of QGCL is illustrated by several examples where various variants and
generalizations of quantum walks are conveniently expressed using quantum
alternation and quantum choice. We believe that quantum programming with
quantum alternation and choice will play an important role in further
exploiting the power of quantum computing.

Inspired by classical ("actual") Quantum Theory over $\mathbb{C}$ and Modal
Quantum Theory (MQT), which is a model of Quantum Theory over certain finite
fields, we introduce General Quantum Theory as a Quantum Theory -- in the
K{\o}benhavn interpretation -- over general division rings with involution, in
which the inner product "is" a $(\sigma,1)$-Hermitian form $\varphi$. This
unites all known such approaches in one and the same theory, and we show that
many of the known results such as no-cloning, no-deleting, quantum
teleportation and super-dense quantum coding, which are known in classical
Quantum Theory over $\mathbb{C}$ and in some MQTs, hold for any General Quantum
Theory. On the other hand, in many General Quantum Theories, a geometrical
object which we call "quantum kernel" arises, which is invariant under the
unitary group $\mathbf{U}(V,\varphi)$, and which carries the geometry of a
so-called polar space. We use this object to construct new quantum
(teleportation) coding schemes, which mix quantum theory with the geometry of
the quantum kernel (and the action of the unitary group). We also show that in
characteristic $0$, every General Quantum Theory over an algebraically closed
field behaves like classical Quantum Theory over $\mathbb{C}$ at many levels,
and that all such theories share one model, which we pin down as the "minimal
model," which is countable and defined over $\overline{\mathbb{Q}}$. Moreover,
to make the analogy with classical Quantum Theory even more striking, we show
that Born's rule holds in any such theory. So all such theories are not modal
at all. Finally, we obtain an extension theory for General Quantum Theories in
characteristic $0$ which allows one to extend any such theory over
algebraically closed fields (such as classical complex Quantum Theory) to
larger theories in which a quantum kernel is present.

In several recent communications (Khrennikov 2019a, b, c, 2020a, b), A.
Khrennikov argued for "eliminating the issue of quantum nonlocality" from the
analysis of quantum entanglement and quantum phenomena in general. He proposed
to differentiate quantum and classical phenomena and entanglement not by their
respective nonlocality and locality, as is common, but by the discreteness of
quantum phenomena vs. the continuity of classical phenomena, supplemented by
Bohr's complementarity in the case of quantum phenomena. As I argue here,
however, the question may not be that of "eliminating the issue of quantum
nonlocality" but instead of illuminating this issue, a task that can, I also
argue, be pursued by relating quantum nonlocality to other key features of
quantum phenomena. I suggest that the following features of quantum phenomena
and quantum mechanics, distinguishing them from classical phenomena and
classical physics--(1) the irreducible role of measuring instruments in
defining quantum phenomena; (2) discreteness; (3) complementarity; (4)
entanglement; (5) quantum nonlocality; and (6) the irreducibly probabilistic
nature of quantum predictions--are all interconnected in defining quantum
phenomena and distinguishing them from classical ones, so that it is difficult
to give an unconditional priority to any one of them. To argue this case, I
consider quantum phenomena and quantum mechanics from a nonrealist or, in terms
adopted here, "reality-without-realism" (RWR) perspective. This perspective
extends and gives new dimensions to Bohr's view, grounded in his analysis of
the irreducible tole of measuring instruments in the constitution of quantum
phenomena, with quantum measurement defined by the entanglements between the
quantum object under investigation and the instrument used.

Quantum machine learning (QML) has emerged as a promising field that leans on
the developments in quantum computing to explore large complex machine learning
problems. Recently, some purely quantum machine learning models were proposed
such as the quantum convolutional neural networks (QCNN) to perform
classification on quantum data. However, all of the existing QML models rely on
centralized solutions that cannot scale well for large-scale and distributed
quantum networks. Hence, it is apropos to consider more practical quantum
federated learning (QFL) solutions tailored towards emerging quantum network
architectures. Indeed, developing QFL frameworks for quantum networks is
critical given the fragile nature of computing qubits and the difficulty of
transferring them. On top of its practical momentousness, QFL allows for
distributed quantum learning by leveraging existing wireless communication
infrastructure. This paper proposes the first fully quantum federated learning
framework that can operate over quantum data and, thus, share the learning of
quantum circuit parameters in a decentralized manner. First, given the lack of
existing quantum federated datasets in the literature, the proposed framework
begins by generating the first quantum federated dataset, with a hierarchical
data format, for distributed quantum networks. Then, clients sharing QCNN
models are fed with the quantum data to perform a classification task.
Subsequently, the server aggregates the learnable quantum circuit parameters
from clients and performs federated averaging. Extensive experiments are
conducted to evaluate and validate the effectiveness of the proposed QFL
solution. This work is the first to combine Google's TensorFlow Federated and
TensorFlow Quantum in a practical implementation.

Computing finite temperature properties of a quantum many-body system is key
to describing a broad range of correlated quantum many-body physics from
quantum chemistry and condensed matter to thermal quantum field theories.
Quantum computing with rapid developments in recent years has a huge potential
to impact the computation of quantum thermodynamics. To fulfill the potential
impacts, it is crucial to design quantum algorithms that utilize the
computation power of the quantum computing devices. Here we present a quantum
kernel function expansion (QKFE) algorithm for solving thermodynamic properties
of quantum many-body systems. In this quantum algorithm, the many-body density
of states is approximated by a kernel-Fourier expansion, whose expansion
moments are obtained by random state sampling and quantum interferometric
measurements. As compared to its classical counterpart, namely the kernel
polynomial method (KPM), QKFE has an exponential advantage in the cost of both
time and memory. In computing low temperature properties, QKFE becomes
inefficient, as similar to classical KPM. To resolve this difficulty, we
further construct a thermal ensemble and approaches the low temperature regime
step-by-step. For quantum Hamiltonians, whose ground states are preparable with
polynomial quantum circuits, THEI has an overall polynomial complexity. We
demonstrate its efficiency with applications to one and two-dimensional quantum
spin models, and a fermionic lattice. With our analysis on the realization with
digital and analogue quantum devices, we expect the quantum algorithm is
accessible to current quantum technology.

As the nascent field of quantum computing develops, an increasing number of
quantum hardware modalities, such as superconducting electronic circuits,
semiconducting spins, trapped ions, and neutral atoms, have become available
for performing quantum computations. These quantum hardware modalities exhibit
varying characteristics and implement different universal quantum gate sets
that may e.g. contain several distinct two-qubit quantum gates. Adapting a
quantum circuit from a, possibly hardware-agnostic, universal quantum gate set
to the quantum gate set of a target hardware modality has a crucial impact on
the fidelity and duration of the intended quantum computation. However, current
quantum circuit adaptation techniques only apply a specific decomposition or
allow only for local improvements to the target quantum circuit potentially
resulting in a quantum computation with less fidelity or more qubit idle time
than necessary. These issues are further aggravated by the multiple options of
hardware-native quantum gates rendering multiple universal quantum gates sets
accessible to a hardware modality. In this work, we developed a satisfiability
modulo theories model that determines an optimized quantum circuit adaptation
given a set of allowed substitutions and decompositions, a target hardware
modality and the quantum circuit to be adapted. We further discuss the physics
of the semiconducting spins hardware modality, show possible implementations of
distinct two-qubit quantum gates, and evaluate the developed model on the
semiconducting spins hardware modality. Using the developed quantum circuit
adaptation method on a noisy simulator, we show the Hellinger fidelity could be
improved by up to 40% and the qubit idle time could be decreased by up to 87%
compared to alternative quantum circuit adaptation techniques.

Quantum technologies work by utilizing properties inherent in quantum systems
such as quantum coherence and quantum entanglement and are expected to be
superior to classical counterparts for solving certain problems in science and
engineering. The quantum technologies are, however, fragile against an
interaction with an environment (decoherence) and in order to utilize them with
high accuracy we need to develop error mitigation techniques which reduce
decoherence effects. In this work, we analyze quantum error mitigation (QEM)
protocol for quantum metrology in the presence of quantum noise. We demonstrate
the effectiveness of our QEM protocol by analyzing three types of quantum
Fisher information (QFI), ideal (error-free) QFI, noisy (erroneous) QFI, and
quantum-error-mitigated QFI, and show both analytically and numerically that
the scaling behaviors of quantum-error-mitigated QFI with respect to the number
of probes become restored to the those exhibited in the ideal quantum
metrology. Our QEM protocol is constructed by an ensemble of quantum circuits,
namely QEM circuit groups, and has advantages such that it can be applied to
noisy quantum metrology for any type of initial state as well as any type of
the probe-system Hamiltonian, and it can be physically implemented in any type
of quantum device. Furthermore, the quantum-error-mitigated QFI become
approximately equal to the ideal QFI for almost any values of physical
quantities to be sensed. Our protocol enables us to use quantum entanglement as
a resource to perform high-sensitive quantum metrology even under the influence
of quantum noise.

Quantum networks are complex systems formed by the interaction among quantum
processors through quantum channels. Analogous to classical computer networks,
quantum networks allow for the distribution of quantum operations among quantum
processors. In this work, we describe a Quantum Walk Control Protocol (QWCP) to
perform distributed quantum operations in a quantum network. We consider a
generalization of the discrete-time coined quantum walk model that accounts for
the interaction between quantum walks in the network graph with quantum
registers inside the network nodes. QWCP allows for the implementation of
networked quantum services, such as distributed quantum computing and
entanglement distribution, abstracting hardware implementation and the
transmission of quantum information through channels. Multiple interacting
quantum walks can be used to propagate entangled control signals across the
network in parallel. We demonstrate how to use QWCP to perform distributed
multi-qubit controlled gates, which shows the universality of the protocol for
distributed quantum computing. Furthermore, we apply the QWCP to the task of
entanglement distribution in a quantum network.

Quantum sensing, built upon fundamental quantum phenomena like entanglement
and squeezing, is revolutionizing precision and sensitivity across diverse
domains, including quantum metrology and imaging. Its impact is now stretching
into radar and LiDAR applications, giving rise to the concept of quantum radar.
Unlike traditional radar systems relying on classical electromagnetic, quantum
radar harnesses the potential of the quantum properties of photon states like
entanglement and quantum superposition to transcend established boundaries in
sensitivity and accuracy. This comprehensive review embarks on an exploration
of quantum radar and quantum LiDAR, guided by two primary objectives: enhancing
sensitivity through quantum resources and refining accuracy in target detection
and range estimation through quantum techniques. We initiate our exploration
with a thorough analysis of the fundamental principles of quantum radar, which
includes an evaluation of quantum illumination protocols, receiver designs, and
their associated methodologies. This investigation spans across both microwave
and optical domains, providing us with insights into various experimental
demonstrations and the existing technological limitations. Additionally, we
review the applications of quantum radar protocols for enhanced accuracy in
target range determination and estimation. This section of our review involves
a comprehensive analysis of quantum illumination, quantum interferometry radar,
and other quantum radar protocols, providing insights into their contributions
to the field. This review offers valuable insights into the current state of
quantum radar, providing a deep understanding of key concepts, experiments, and
the evolving landscape of this dynamic and promising field.

Quantum discord, as introduced by Olliver and Zurek [Phys. Rev. Lett.
\textbf{88}, 017901 (2001)], is a measure of the discrepancy between quantum
versions of two classically equivalent expressions for mutual information and
is found to be useful in quantification and application of quantum correlations
in mixed states. It is viewed as a key resource present in certain quantum
communication tasks and quantum computational models without containing much
entanglement. An early step toward the quantification of quantum discord in a
quantum state was by Dakic, Vedral, and Brukner [Phys. Rev. Lett. 105,190502
(2010)] who introduced a geometric measure of quantum discord and derived an
explicit formula for any two-qubit state. Recently, Luo and Fu [Phys. Rev. A
\textbf{82}, 034302 (2010)] introduced a generic form of the geometric measure
of quantum discord for a bipartite quantum state. We extend these results and
find generic forms of the geometric measure of quantum discord and total
quantum correlations in a general N-partite quantum state. Further, we obtain
computable exact formulas for the geometric measure of quantum discord and
total quantum correlations in a N-qubit quantum state. The exact formulas for
the $N$-qubit quantum state are experimentally implementable.

A general framework of quantum state amplification using the language of
quantum state transformation is given systematically for the first time. The
concept of amplification of quantum states is defined specifically and the
amplification of a set of quantum states is formulated generally as the
transformation of quantum states. Three different kinds of important quantum
amplifications, i.e., deterministic noisy quantum amplification, probabilistic
noiseless quantum amplification, and deterministic noiseless quantum
amplification are identified and discussed. For deterministic quan- tum
amplification, the linearity of amplification is proven to be incompatible with
the noiseless amplification while it is not true for probabilistic quantum
amplification. However, deterministic noiseless quantum amplification is shown
physically attainable if the linearity of amplification is given up. The
connection between the gain of amplification and the successful probability is
discussed for probabilistic quantum amplification. Assuming that successful
probability is the same for all quantum states to be amplified, we obtain a
generally valid relation between the gain of amplication and the successful
probability. Particular interest is given to phase-preserving quantum
amplication of Gaussian states which has been shown of theoretical interest and
of practical importance in quantum information and quantum communication
recently. Our results of quantum state amplification not only enrich the
research of quantum amplification but also can be helpful for further practical
applications.

Quantum algorithms have the potential to outperform their classical
counterparts in a variety of tasks. The realization of the advantage often
requires the ability to load classical data efficiently into quantum states.
However, the best known methods require $\mathcal{O}\left(2^n\right)$ gates to
load an exact representation of a generic data structure into an $n$-qubit
state. This scaling can easily predominate the complexity of a quantum
algorithm and, thereby, impair potential quantum advantage. Our work presents a
hybrid quantum-classical algorithm for efficient, approximate quantum state
loading. More precisely, we use quantum Generative Adversarial Networks (qGANs)
to facilitate efficient learning and loading of generic probability
distributions -- implicitly given by data samples -- into quantum states.
Through the interplay of a quantum channel, such as a variational quantum
circuit, and a classical neural network, the qGAN can learn a representation of
the probability distribution underlying the data samples and load it into a
quantum state. The loading requires
$\mathcal{O}\left(poly\left(n\right)\right)$ gates and can, thus, enable the
use of potentially advantageous quantum algorithms, such as Quantum Amplitude
Estimation. We implement the qGAN distribution learning and loading method with
Qiskit and test it using a quantum simulation as well as actual quantum
processors provided by the IBM Q Experience. Furthermore, we employ quantum
simulation to demonstrate the use of the trained quantum channel in a quantum
finance application.

Recently, a standardized framework was proposed for introducing
quantum-inspired moves in mathematical games with perfect information and no
chance. The beauty of quantum games-succinct in representation, rich in
structures, explosive in complexity, dazzling for visualization, and
sophisticated for strategic reasoning-has drawn us to play concrete games full
of subtleties and to characterize abstract properties pertinent to complexity
consequence. Going beyond individual games, we explore the tractability of
quantum combinatorial games as whole, and address fundamental questions
including:
  Quantum Leap in Complexity: Are there polynomial-time solvable games whose
quantum extensions are intractable?
  Quantum Collapses in Complexity: Are there PSPACE-complete games whose
quantum extensions fall to the lower levels of the polynomial-time hierarchy?
  Quantumness Matters: How do outcome classes and strategies change under
quantum moves? Under what conditions doesn't quantumness matter?
  PSPACE Barrier for Quantum Leap: Can quantum moves launch PSPACE games into
outer polynomial space
  We show that quantum moves not only enrich the game structure, but also
impact their computational complexity. In settling some of these basic
questions, we characterize both the powers and limitations of quantum moves as
well as the superposition of game configurations that they create. Our
constructive proofs-both on the leap of complexity in concrete Quantum Nim and
Quantum Undirected Geography and on the continuous collapses, in the quantum
setting, of complexity in abstract PSPACE-complete games to each level of the
polynomial-time hierarchy-illustrate the striking computational landscape over
quantum games and highlight surprising turns with unexpected quantum impact.
Our studies also enable us to identify several elegant open questions
fundamental to quantum combinatorial game theory (QCGT).

The quantum switch describes a quantum operation in which two or more quantum
channels act on a quantum system with the order of application determined by
the state of an order quantum system. And by suitably choosing the state of the
order system, one can create a quantum superposition of the different orders of
application, which can perform communication tasks impossible within the
framework of the standard quantum Shannon theory. In this paper, we consider
the scenario of one-shot heralded qubit communication and ask whether there
exist protocols using a given quantum switch or switches that could outperform
the given ones. We answer this question in the affirmative. We define a
higher-order quantum switch composed of two quantum switches, with their order
of application controlled by another order quantum system. We then show that
the quantum switches placed in a quantum superposition of their alternative
orders can transmit a qubit, without any error, with a probability higher than
that achievable with the quantum switches individually. We demonstrate this
communication advantage over quantum switches useful as a resource and those
that are useless. We also show that there are situations where there is no
communication advantage over the individual quantum switches.

All-quantum signal processing techniques are at the core of the successful
advancement of most information-based quantum technologies. This paper develops
coherent and comprehensive methodologies and mathematical models to describe
Fourier optical signal processing in full quantum terms for any input quantum
state of light. We begin this paper by introducing a spatially two-dimensional
quantum state of a photon, associated with its wavefront and expressible as a
two-dimensional creation operator. Then, by breaking down the Fourier optical
processing apparatus into its key components, we strive to acquire the quantum
unitary transformation or the input/output quantum relation of the
two-dimensional creation operators. Subsequently, we take advantage of the
above results to develop and obtain the quantum analogous of a few essential
Fourier optical apparatus, such as quantum convolution via a 4f-processing
system and a quantum 4f-processing system with periodic pupils. Moreover, due
to the importance and widespread use of optical pulse shaping in various
optical communications and optical sciences fields, we also present an
analogous system in full quantum terms, namely quantum pulse shaping with an
8f-processing system. Finally, we apply our results to two extreme examples of
the quantum state of light. One is based on a coherent (Glauber) state and the
other on a single-photon number (Fock) state for each of the above optical
systems. We believe the schemes and mathematical models developed in this paper
can impact many areas of quantum optical signal processing, quantum holography,
quantum communications, quantum radars and multiple-input/multiple-output
antennas, and many more applications in quantum computations and quantum
machine learning algorithms.

Quantum computing is gaining popularity across a wide range of scientific
disciplines due to its potential to solve long-standing computational problems
that are considered intractable with classical computers. One promising area
where quantum computing has potential is in the speed-up of NP-hard
optimisation problems that are common in industrial areas such as logistics and
finance. Newcomers to the field of quantum computing who are interested in
using this technology to solve optimisation problems do not have an easily
accessible source of information on the current capabilities of quantum
computers and algorithms. This paper aims to provide a comprehensive overview
of the theory of quantum optimisation techniques and their practical
application, focusing on their near-term potential for noisy intermediate scale
quantum devices. Two main paradigms for quantum hardware are then discussed:
quantum annealing and gate-based quantum computing. While quantum annealers are
effective for some optimisation problems, they have limitations and cannot be
used for universal quantum computation. In contrast, gate-based quantum
computers offer the potential for universal quantum computation, but they face
challenges with hardware limitations and accurate gate implementation. The
paper provides a detailed mathematical discussion with references to key works
in the field, as well as a more practical discussion with relevant examples.
The most popular techniques for quantum optimisation on gate-based quantum
computers, the quantum approximate optimisation (QAO) algorithm and the quantum
alternating operator ansatz (QAOA) framework, are discussed in detail. The
paper concludes with a discussion of the challenges facing quantum optimisation
techniques and the need for further research and development to identify new,
effective methods for achieving quantum advantage.

A limited number of qubits, high error rates, and limited qubit connectivity
are major challenges for effective near-term quantum computations. Quantum
circuit partitioning divides a quantum computation into a set of computations
that include smaller-scale quantum (sub)circuits and classical postprocessing
steps. These quantum subcircuits require fewer qubits, incur a smaller effort
for satisfying qubit connectivity requirements, and typically incur less error.
Thus, quantum circuit partitioning has the potential to enable quantum
computations that would otherwise only be available on more matured hardware.
However, partitioning quantum circuits generally incurs an exponential increase
in quantum computing runtime by repeatedly executing quantum subcircuits.
Previous work results in non-optimal subcircuit executions hereby limiting the
scope of quantum circuit partitioning.
  In this work, we develop an optimal partitioning method based on recent
advances in quantum circuit knitting. By considering wire cuts and gate cuts in
conjunction with ancilla qubit insertions and classical communication, the
developed method can determine a minimal cost quantum circuit partitioning.
Compared to previous work, we demonstrate the developed method to reduce the
overhead in quantum computing time by 73% on average for 56% of evaluated
quantum circuits. Given a one hour runtime budget on a typical near-term
quantum computer, the developed method could reduce the qubit requirement of
the evaluated quantum circuits by 40% on average. These results highlight the
ability of the developed method to extend the computational reach of near-term
quantum computers by reducing the qubit requirement at a lower increase in
quantum circuit executions.

Central to the power of quantum computing is the concept of quantum
parallelism: quantum systems can explore and process multiple computational
paths simultaneously. In this paper, we discuss the elusive nature of quantum
parallelism, drawing parallels with classical parallel computing models to
elucidate its fundamental characteristics and implications for algorithmic
performance. We begin by defining quantum parallelism as arising from the
superposition of quantum states, allowing for the exploration of multiple
computational paths in parallel. To quantify and visualize quantum parallelism,
we introduce the concept of quantum dataflow diagrams, which provide a
graphical representation of quantum algorithms and their parallel execution
paths. We demonstrate how quantum parallelism can be measured and assessed by
analyzing quantum algorithms such as the Quantum Fourier Transform (QFT) and
Amplitude Amplification (AA) iterations using quantum dataflow diagrams.
Furthermore, we examine the interplay between quantum parallelism and classical
parallelism laws, including Amdahl's and Gustafson's laws. While these laws
were originally formulated for classical parallel computing systems, we
reconsider their applicability in the quantum computing domain. We argue that
while classical parallelism laws offer valuable insights, their direct
application to quantum computing is limited due to the unique characteristics
of quantum parallelism, including the role of destructive interference and the
inherent limitations of classical-quantum I/O. Our analysis highlights the need
for an increased understanding of quantum parallelism and its implications for
algorithm design and performance.

Quantum systems with a large number of fermionic degrees of freedom are
intractable by quantum simulations. In this paper we introduce the concept of a
dedicated quantum simulator(DQS) which is an artificial system of quantum dots
whose Hamiltonian maps exactly to the original many fermion problem. While the
universal quantum simulator (UQS) introduced by Feynman in 1982 can simulate
any quantum mechanical many-body problem, a DQS can only solve a particular
many body problem. Our concept of the dedicated quantum simulator is not a
quantum computer but rather a quantum "analog" device, dedicated to a
particular quantum computation. As an example, we consider the system of the
$CuO$ plane in the copper-oxide superconductors and we propose an array of
electrostatically confined quantum dots to be used as its dedicated quantum
simulator. We show that this dedicated device can be used to image stripe
formation as a function of the electron doping using electric force microscopy.
We argue that such a dedicated quantum simulator may be easier to realize in
the future compared to a general purpose quantum computer.

We discuss a nexus among quantum topology, quantum physics and quantum
computing.

The controversy between relativistic causality and quantum non-locality can
be resolved by establishing the general relativistic background of quantum
non-locality.

We describe the underlying U_q(g)--module structure of representations of
quantum affine algebras.

We define quantum exterior product wedge_h and quantum exterior differential
d_h on Poisson manifolds, of which symplectic manifolds are an important class
of examples. Quantum de Rham cohomology is defined as the cohomology of d_h. We
also define quantum Dolbeault cohomology. Quantum hard Lefschetz theorem is
proved. We also define a version of quantum integral, and prove the quantum
Stokes theorem. By the trick of replacing d by d_h and wedge by wedge_h in the
usual definitions, we define many quantum analogues of important objects in
differential geometry, e.g. quantum curvature. The quantum characteristic
classes are then studied along the lines of classical Chern-Weil theory, i.e.,
they can be represented by expressions of quantum curvature. Quantum
equivariant de Rham cohomology is defined in a similar fashion. Calculations
are done for some examples, which show that quantum de Rham cohomology is
different from the quantum cohomology defined using pseudo-holomorphic curves.

Recent results of the authors on quantum bounded symmetric domains and
quantum Harish-Chandra modules are expounded.

We explore a connection between quantum logic and quantum computing.

Through the example of the quantum symplectic 4-sphere, we discuss how the
notion of twisted spectral triple fits into the framework of quantum
homogeneous spaces.

We describe a connection between finite--dimensional representations of
quantum affine algebras and affine Hecke algebras.

Quantum Lie algebras are generalizations of Lie algebras which have the
quantum parameter h built into their structure. They have been defined
concretely as certain submodules of the quantized enveloping algebras. On them
the quantum Lie bracket is given by the quantum adjoint action.
  Here we define for any finite-dimensional simple complex Lie algebra g an
abstract quantum Lie algebra g_h independent of any concrete realization. Its
h-dependent structure constants are given in terms of inverse quantum
Clebsch-Gordan coefficients. We then show that all concrete quantum Lie
algebras are isomorphic to an abstract quantum Lie algebra g_h.
  In this way we prove two important properties of quantum Lie algebras: 1) all
quantum Lie algebras associated to the same g are isomorphic, 2) the quantum
Lie bracket of any quantum Lie algebra is $q$-antisymmetric. We also describe a
construction of quantum Lie algebras which establishes their existence.

We study the algebraic aspects of equivariant quantum cohomology algebra of
the flag manifold. We introduce and study the quantum double Schubert
polynomials, which are the Lascoux-Schutzenberger type representatives of the
equivariant quantum cohomology classes. Our approach is based on the quantum
Cauchy identity. We define also quantum Schubert polynomials as the
Gram-Schmidt orthogonalization of some set of monomials with respect to the
scalar product, defined by the Grothendieck residue. Using quantum Cauchy
identity, we prove that quantum Schubert polynomials are the specialization of
quantum double Schubert polynomials with second set of variables equals to
zero, and as a corollary obtain a simple formula for the quantum Schubert
polynomials. We also prove the higher genus analog of Vafa-Intriligator's
formula for the flag manifolds and study the quantum residues generating
function. We introduce the extended Ehresman-Bruhat order on the symmetric
group and formulate the equivariant quantum Pieri rule.

We prove a data processing inequality for quantum communication channels,
which states that processing a received quantum state may never increase the
mutual information between input and output states.

In this letter, we proposed a quantum authentication protocol. The
authentication process is implemented by the symmetric cryptographic scheme
with quantum effects.

Time-frequency transforms represent a signal as a mixture of its time domain
representation and its frequency domain representation. We present efficient
algorithms for the quantum Zak transform and quantum Weyl-Heisenberg transform.

Could the theories with hidden variables be employed for creation of a
quantum computer? A particular scheme of quasiclassical model quantum computer
structure is describe.

Quantum information is radically different from classical information in that
the quantum formalism (Hilbert space) makes necessary the introduction of
irreducible ``nits,'' n being an arbitrary natural number (bigger than one),
not just bits.

Generalization of quantum information splitting protocol from qubits to
qudits (quantum d-dimensional systems) is presented.

Comment on "Quantum Interferometric Optical Lithography: Exploiting
Entanglement to Beat the Diffraction Limit"
  The effective absorption rates in quantum lithography are very low.

Connections between Fisher information, Kaehler geometry of a quantum
projective Hilbert space, and the Weyl-Ricci scalar curvature of a Riemannian
flat spacetime with quantum matter are sketched.

In this introductory course we sketch the framework of quantum probability in
order to discuss open quantum systems, in particular the damped harmonic
oscillator.

A kind of brand-new robot, quantum robot, is proposed through fusing quantum
theory with robot technology. Quantum robot is essentially a complex quantum
system and it is generally composed of three fundamental parts: MQCU (multi
quantum computing units), quantum controller/actuator, and information
acquisition units. Corresponding to the system structure, several learning
control algorithms including quantum searching algorithm and quantum
reinforcement learning are presented for quantum robot. The theoretic results
show that quantum robot can reduce the complexity of O(N^2) in traditional
robot to O(N^(3/2)) using quantum searching algorithm, and the simulation
results demonstrate that quantum robot is also superior to traditional robot in
efficient learning by novel quantum reinforcement learning algorithm.
Considering the advantages of quantum robot, its some potential important
applications are also analyzed and prospected.

The task of reception of a copy of an arbitrary quantum state with use of a
minimum quantity of quantum operations is considered.

Errors and paradoxes in quantum mechanics, entry in the Compendium of Quantum
Physics: Concepts, Experiments, History and Philosophy, ed. F. Weinert, K.
Hentschel, D. Greenberger and B. Falkenburg (Springer), to appear

A review of the term "counterfactuals" in various contexts of quantum
mechanics.

Quantum optical Gaussian states are a type of important robust quantum states
which are manipulatable by the existing technologies. So far, most of the
important quantum information experiments are done with such states, including
bright Gaussian light and weak Gaussian light. Extending the existing results
of quantum information with discrete quantum states to the case of continuous
variable quantum states is an interesting theoretical job. The quantum Gaussian
states play a central role in such a case. We review the properties and
applications of Gaussian states in quantum information with emphasis on the
fundamental concepts, the calculation techniques and the effects of
imperfections of the real-life experimental setups.
  Topics here include the elementary properties of Gaussian states and relevant
quantum information device, entanglement-based quantum tasks such as quantum
teleportation, quantum cryptography with weak and strong Gaussian states and
the quantum channel capacity, mathematical theory of quantum entanglement and
state estimation for Gaussian states.

We propose a new form of nonrelativistic quantum mechanics which is based on
a quantum version of the action principle.

A quantum version of the action principle is formulated in terms of real
parameters of a wave functional. The classical limit of the quantum action of a
harmonic oscillator is obtained.

A quantum version of the action principle is considered in the case of a free
relativistic particle. The classical limit of the quantum action is obtained.

Dirac's contributions to the discovery of non-relativistic quantum mechanics
and quantum electrodynamics, prior to his discovery of the relativistic wave
equation, are described.

I draw attention to previous work that shows that the observables
corresponding to relativistic quantum field modes commonly employed in papers
on "relativistic quantum information" cannot be measured by ideal measurements.

Quantum systems unfold diversified correlations which have no classical
counterparts. These quantum correlations have various different facets. Quantum
entanglement, as the most well known measure of quantum correlations, plays
essential roles in quantum information processing. However, it has recently
been pointed out that quantum entanglement cannot describe all the
nonclassicality in the correlations. Thus the study of quantum correlations in
separable states attracts widely attentions. Herein, we experimentally
investigate the quantum correlations of separable thermal states in terms of
quantum discord. The sudden change of quantum discord is observed, which
captures ambiguously the critical point associated with the behavior of
Hamiltonian. Our results display the potential applications of quantum
correlations in studying the fundamental properties of quantum system, such as
quantum criticality of non-zero temperature.

A quantum walk is a time-homogeneous quantum-mechanical process on a graph
defined by analogy to classical random walk. The quantum walker is a particle
that moves from a given vertex to adjacent vertices in quantum superposition.
Here we consider a generalization of quantum walk to systems with more than one
walker. A continuous-time multi-particle quantum walk is generated by a
time-independent Hamiltonian with a term corresponding to a single-particle
quantum walk for each particle, along with an interaction term. Multi-particle
quantum walk includes a broad class of interacting many-body systems such as
the Bose-Hubbard model and systems of fermions or distinguishable particles
with nearest-neighbor interactions. We show that multi-particle quantum walk is
capable of universal quantum computation. Since it is also possible to
efficiently simulate a multi-particle quantum walk of the type we consider
using a universal quantum computer, this model exactly captures the power of
quantum computation. In principle our construction could be used as an
architecture for building a scalable quantum computer with no need for
time-dependent control.

Monogamy of quantum correlation measures puts restrictions on the sharability
of quantum correlations in multiparty quantum states. Multiparty quantum states
can satisfy or violate monogamy relations with respect to given quantum
correlations. We show that all multiparty quantum states can be made monogamous
with respect to all measures. More precisely, given any quantum correlation
measure that is non-monogamic for a multiparty quantum state, it is always
possible to find a monotonically increasing function of the measure that is
monogamous for the same state. The statement holds for all quantum states,
whether pure or mixed, in all finite dimensions and for an arbitrary number of
parties. The monotonically increasing function of the quantum correlation
measure satisfies all the properties that is expected for quantum correlations
to follow. We illustrate the concepts by considering a thermodynamic measure of
quantum correlation, called the quantum work deficit.

It is often stated that complex numbers are essential in quantum theory. In
this article, the need for complex numbers in quantum theory is motivated using
the results of tandem Stern-Gerlach experiments

We investigate the schemes of quantum network teleportation for quantum
information distribution and concentration which are essential in quantum cloud
computation and quantum internet. In those schemes, the cloud can send
simultaneously identical unknown quantum states to clients located in different
places by a network like teleportation with a prior shared multipartite
entangled state resource. The cloud first perform the quantum operation, each
client can recover their quantum state locally by using the classical
information announced by the cloud about the measurement result. The number of
clients can be beyond the number of identical quantum states intentionally
being sent, this quantum network teleportation can make sure that the retrieved
quantum state is optimal. Furthermore, we present a scheme to realize its
reverse process, which concentrates the states from the clients to reconstruct
the original state of the cloud. These schemes facilitate the quantum
information distribution and concentration in quantum networks in the framework
of quantum cloud computation. Potential applications in time synchronization
are discussed.

Rapid experimental progress has recently allowed the use of light to prepare
macroscopic mechanical objects into nearly pure quantum states. This research
field of quantum optomechanics opens new doors toward testing quantum
mechanics, and possibly other laws of physics, in new regimes. In the first
part of this paper, I will review a set of techniques of quantum measurement
theory that are often used to analyze quantum optomechanical systems. Some of
these techniques were originally designed to analyze how a classical driving
force passes through a quantum system, and can eventually be detected with
optimal signal-to-noise ratio --- while others focus more on the quantum state
evolution of a mechanical object under continuous monitoring. In the second
part of this paper, I will review a set of experimental concepts that will
demonstrate quantum mechanical behavior of macroscopic objects --- quantum
entanglement, quantum teleportation, and the quantum Zeno effect. Taking the
interplay between gravity and quantum mechanics as an example, I will review a
set of speculations on how quantum mechanics can be modified for macroscopic
objects, and how these speculations --- and their generalizations --- might be
tested by optomechanics.

What violations of Bell inequalities teach us is that the world is quantum
mechanical, i.e., nonclassical. Assertions that they imply the world is
nonlocal arise from ignoring differences between quantum and classical physics.

The projective measurement usually destroys the quantum correlation between
two subsystems of a composite system, thereby making the measured state useless
for any efficient quantum information processing and quantum computation task.
The weak measurement acts gently on quantum system and do not force the system
state to decohere completely, thus revealing the super quantum discord, which
can take value more than that of the normal quantum discord. Remarkably, we
prove that the super quantum discord in the post measured state is equal to the
difference between the super quantum discord and the normal quantum discord in
the original state. Thus, the weak measurement has the ability to resurrect the
lost quantumness of any composite quantum state. This suggests a conservation
law for the extra quantum correlation in any composite state. The amount of
extra quantum correlation which is destroyed by the projective measurement in
the original state is equal to the amount of extra quantum correlation captured
by the weak measurement in the post-measured state.

We find a protocol transmitting K quantum states crossly in the quantum
networks with K pair sender-receiver and one bottleneck channels only with
sharing quantum correlations between senders. In these networks senders want to
multi cast perfect quantum states to receivers. Perfect send on the quantum
networks is impossible just using some additional resources like quantum
correlation. This protocol has been used maximum entangled states and Quantum
Discord which is best indicator of the quantum nature of the correlation to
sharing between senders. At first, to send perfect K states in quantum network
applied some maximum entanglement states to teleport quantum states, Enistein -
Podolsky - Rosen (EPR) states as simple and two qubit states and Grrenberger-
Horne - Zeilinger (GHZ) states and W states as kinds of three qubit states.
Then reached that there is no difference between sharing these maximum
entanglement states and must send same amount of classical bits in bottleneck
channel. In the second part of this paper of sharing Quantum Correlation
(quantum discord) perfect send of two quantum states is possible in the
Butterfly network with fidelity equal one.

We establish an axiomatization for quantum processes, which is a quantum
generalization of process algebra ACP (Algebra of Communicating Processes). We
use the framework of a quantum process configuration $\langle p,
\varrho\rangle$, but we treat it as two relative independent part: the
structural part $p$ and the quantum part $\varrho$, because the establishment
of a sound and complete theory is dependent on the structural properties of the
structural part $p$. We let the quantum part $\varrho$ be the outcomes of
execution of $p$ to examine and observe the function of the basic theory of
quantum mechanics. We establish not only a strong bisimularity for quantum
processes, but also a weak bisimularity to model the silent step and abstract
internal computations in quantum processes. The relationship between quantum
bisimularity and classical bisimularity is established, which makes an
axiomatization of quantum processes possible. An axiomatization for quantum
processes called qACP is designed, which involves not only quantum information,
but also classical information and unifies quantum computing and classical
computing. qACP can be used easily and widely for verification of most quantum
communication protocols.

In this paper, we consider quantum correlations (quantum discord and local
quantum uncertainty) in a vertical quantum dot. Their dependencies on magnetic
field and temperature are presented in detail. It is noticeable that, quantum
discord and local quantum uncertainty behavior is similar to a large extent. In
addition, the time evolution of quantum discord and local quantum uncertainty
under dephasing and amplitude damping channels is investigated. It has been
found that, for some Belldiagonal states quantum discord is invariant under
some decoherence in a finite time interval [Phys. Rev. Lett. 104, 200401
(2010)]. Also, our results show that quantum discord is invariant under
dephasing channel for a finite time interval in a vertical quantum dot, while
this phenomenon does not occurs for local quantum uncertainty case.

Quantum entanglement is the most popular kind of quantum correlations, and
its fundamental role in several tasks in quantum information theory like
quantum cryptography, quantum dense coding, and quantum teleportation is
undeniable. However, recent results suggest that various applications in
quantum information theory do not require entanglement, and that their
performance can be captured by a new type of quantum correlations which goes
beyond entanglement. Quantum discord, introduced by Zurek more than a decade
ago, is the most popular candidate for such general quantum correlations. In
this work we give an introduction to this modern research direction. After a
short review of the main concepts of quantum theory and entanglement, we
present quantum discord and general quantum correlations, and discuss three
applications which are based on this new type of correlations: remote state
preparation, entanglement distribution, and transmission of correlations. We
also give an outlook to other research in this direction.

Quantum computing exploits fundamentally new models of computation based on
quantum mechanical properties instead of classical physics, and it is believed
that quantum computers are able to dramatically improve computational power for
particular tasks. At present, nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) has been one of
the most successful platforms amongst all current implementations. It has
demonstrated universal controls on the largest number of qubits, and many
advanced techniques developed in NMR have been adopted to other quantum systems
successfully. In this review, we show how NMR quantum processors can satisfy
the general requirements of a quantum computer, and describe advanced
techniques developed towards this target. Additionally, we review some recent
NMR quantum processor experiments. These experiments include benchmarking
protocols, quantum error correction, demonstrations of algorithms exploiting
quantum properties, exploring the foundations of quantum mechanics, and quantum
simulations. Finally we summarize the concepts and comment on future prospects.

The dynamics of nonlinear systems qualitatively change depending on their
parameters, which is called bifurcation. A quantum-mechanical nonlinear
oscillator can yield a quantum superposition of two oscillation states, known
as a Schr\"odinger cat state, via quantum adiabatic evolution through its
bifurcation point. Here we propose a quantum computer comprising such quantum
nonlinear oscillators, instead of quantum bits, to solve hard combinatorial
optimization problems. The nonlinear oscillator network finds optimal solutions
via quantum adiabatic evolution, where nonlinear terms are increased slowly, in
contrast to conventional adiabatic quantum computation or quantum annealing,
where quantum fluctuation terms are decreased slowly. As a result of numerical
simulations, it is concluded that quantum superposition and quantum fluctuation
work effectively to find optimal solutions. It is also notable that the present
computer is analogous to neural computers, which are also networks of nonlinear
components. Thus, the present scheme will open new possibilities for quantum
computation, nonlinear science, and artificial intelligence.

Due to the axioms of quantum mechanics, perfect cloning of an unknown quantum
state is impossible. But since imperfect cloning is still possible, a question
arises: "Is there an optimal quantum cloning machine?" Buzek and Hillery answer
to this question and construct their famous B-H quantum cloning machine. The
B-H machine clones state of an arbitrary single qubit in optimal manner and
hence it is universal. Generalizing this machine for two-qubit system is
straightforward, but this procedure does not preserve quantum correlation
existing in bipartite state in optimal manner and also, during this procedure,
this machine loses its universality and becomes a state-dependent cloning
machine. In this paper we propose an optimal universal local quantum state
cloner for two qubit systems. Also we present two classes of state-dependent
local quantum copying machine. Furthermore, we investigate local broadcasting
of two aspects of quantum correlations, i.e., quantum entanglement and quantum
discord defined, respectively, within the entanglement-separability paradigm
and from an information-theoretic perspective. The results show that although
quantum correlation is in general very fragile during broadcasting procedure,
quantum discord is broadcasted more robustly than quantum entanglement.

Superconducting circuits have become a leading quantum technology for testing
fundamentals of quantum mechanics and for the implementation of advanced
quantum information protocols. In this chapter, we revise the basic concepts of
circuit network theory and circuit quantum electrodynamics for the sake of
digital and analog quantum simulations of quantum field theories, relativistic
quantum mechanics, and many-body physics, involving fermions and bosons. Based
on recent improvements in scalability, controllability, and measurement,
superconducting circuits can be considered as a promising quantum platform for
building scalable digital and analog quantum simulators, enjoying unique and
distinctive properties when compared to other advanced platforms as trapped
ions, quantum photonics and optical lattices.

Monogamy is an intrinsic feature of quantum correlations that gives rise to
several interesting quantum characteristics which are not amenable to classical
explanations. The monogamy property imposes physical restrictions on
unconditional sharability of quantum correlations between the different parts
of a multipartite quantum system, and thus has a direct bearing on the
cooperative properties of states of multiparty systems, including large
many-body systems. On the contrary, a certain party can be maximally classical
correlated with an arbitrary number of parties in a multiparty system. In
recent years, the monogamy property of quantum correlations has been applied to
understand several key aspects of quantum physics, including distribution of
quantum resources, security in quantum communication, critical phenomena, and
quantum biology. In this chapter, we look at some of the salient developments
and applications in quantum physics that have been closely associated with the
monogamy of quantum discord, and "discord-like" quantum correlation measures.

Quantum information theory has considerably helped in the understanding of
quantum many-body systems. The role of quantum correlations and in particular,
bipartite entanglement, has become crucial to characterise, classify and
simulate quantum many body systems. Furthermore, the scaling of entanglement
has inspired modifications to numerical techniques for the simulation of
many-body systems leading to the, now established, area of tensor networks.
However, the notions and methods brought by quantum information do not end with
bipartite entanglement. There are other forms of correlations embedded in the
ground, excited and thermal states of quantum many-body systems that also need
to be explored and might be utilised as potential resources for quantum
technologies. The aim of this work is to review the most recent developments
regarding correlations in quantum many-body systems focussing on multipartite
entanglement, quantum nonlocality, quantum discord, mutual information but also
other non classical measures of correlations based on quantum coherence.
Moreover, we also discuss applications of quantum metrology in quantum
many-body systems.

We introduce a notion of quantum function, and develop a compositional
framework for finite quantum set theory based on a 2-category of quantum sets
and quantum functions. We use this framework to formulate a 2-categorical
theory of quantum graphs, which captures the quantum graphs and quantum graph
homomorphisms recently discovered in the study of nonlocal games and zero-error
communication, and relates them to quantum automorphism groups of graphs
considered in the setting of compact quantum groups. We show that the
2-categories of quantum sets and quantum graphs are semisimple and characterise
existing notions of quantum permutations and quantum graph isomorphisms as
dagger-dualisable 1-morphisms in these 2-categories.

We present the first experimental realization of a quantum artificial life
algorithm in a quantum computer. The quantum biomimetic protocol encodes
tailored quantum behaviors belonging to living systems, namely,
self-replication, mutation, interaction between individuals, and death, into
the cloud quantum computer IBM ibmqx4. In this experiment, entanglement spreads
throughout generations of individuals, where genuine quantum information
features are inherited through genealogical networks. As a pioneering
proof-of-principle, experimental data fits the ideal model with accuracy.
Thereafter, these and other models of quantum artificial life, for which no
classical device may predict its quantum supremacy evolution, can be further
explored in novel generations of quantum computers. Quantum biomimetics,
quantum machine learning, and quantum artificial intelligence will move forward
hand in hand through more elaborate levels of quantum complexity.

Universal control of quantum systems is a major goal to be achieved for
quantum information processing, which demands thorough understanding of
fundamental quantum mechanics and promises applications of quantum
technologies. So far, most studies concentrate on ideally isolated quantum
systems governed by unitary evolutions, while practical quantum systems are
open and described by quantum channels due to their inevitable coupling to
environment. Here, we experimentally simulate arbitrary quantum channels for an
open quantum system, i.e. a single photonic qubit in a superconducting quantum
circuit. The arbitrary channel simulation is achieved with minimum resource of
only one ancilla qubit and measurement-based adaptive control. By repetitively
implementing the quantum channel simulation, we realize an arbitrary
Liouvillian for a continuous evolution of an open quantum system for the first
time. Our experiment provides not only a testbed for understanding quantum
noise and decoherence, but also a powerful tool for full control of practical
open quantum systems.

Quantum coherence is a fundamental aspect of quantum physics and plays a
central role in quantum information science. This essential property of the
quantum states could be fragile under the influence of the quantum operations.
The extent to which quantum coherence is diminished depends both on the channel
and the incoherent basis. Motivated by this, we propose a measure of
nonclassicality of a quantum channel as the average quantum coherence of the
state space after the channel acts on, minimized over all orthonormal basis
sets of the state space. Utilizing the squared $l_1$-norm of coherence for the
qubit channels, the minimization can be treated analytically and the proposed
measure takes a closed form of expression. If we allow the channels to act
locally on a maximally entangled state, the quantum correlation is diminished
making the states more classical. We show that the extent to which quantum
correlation is preserved under local action of the channel cannot exceed the
quantumness of the underlying channel. We further apply our measure to the
quantum teleportation protocol and show that a nonzero quantumness for the
underlying channel provides a necessary condition to overcome the best
classical protocols.

A new paradigm of quantum computing, namely, soft quantum computing, is
proposed for nonclassical computation using real world quantum systems with
naturally occurring environment-induced decoherence and dissipation. As a
specific example of soft quantum computing, we suggest a quantum neural
network, where the neurons connect pairwise via the "controlled Kraus
operations", hoping to pave an easier and more realistic way to quantum
artificial intelligence and even to better understanding certain functioning of
the human brain. Our quantum neuron model mimics as much as possible the
realistic neurons and meanwhile, uses quantum laws for processing information.
The quantum features of the noisy neural network are uncovered by the presence
of quantum discord and by non-commutability of quantum operations. We believe
that our model puts quantum computing into a wider context and inspires the
hope to build a soft quantum computer much earlier than the standard one.

Quantum teleportation allows to transfer unknown quantum states between
distant parties. It is not only a primitive of quantum communications but also
an essential task in realization of the quantum networks for promising
applications such as quantum cryptography and distributed quantum computation.
Despite recent substantial progresses in the realization of quantum
communications, teleportation of shared quantum information between multiple
senders and receivers is still missing. Here we propose and experimentally
demonstrate quantum teleportation among spatially separate parties in a quantum
network. The protocol can be jointly performed by distributed participants,
while none of them can fully access the transferred information. It can be
generally extended to quantum communications incorporating an arbitrary number
of parties without a trusted central node. Our work opens a route to the
realization of distributed quantum communications and computations in quantum
networks

Designing quantum algorithms for simulating quantum systems has seen enormous
progress, yet few studies have been done to develop quantum algorithms for open
quantum dynamics despite its importance in modeling the system-environment
interaction found in most realistic physical models. In this work we propose
and demonstrate a general quantum algorithm to evolve open quantum dynamics on
quantum computing devices. The Kraus operators governing the time evolution can
be converted into unitary matrices with minimal dilation guaranteed by the
Sz.-Nagy theorem. This allows the evolution of the initial state through
unitary quantum gates, while using significantly less resource than required by
the conventional Stinespring dilation. We demonstrate the algorithm on an
amplitude damping channel using the IBM Qiskit quantum simulator and the IBM Q
5 Tenerife quantum device. The proposed algorithm does not require particular
models of dynamics or decomposition of the quantum channel, and thus can be
easily generalized to other open quantum dynamical models.

Quantum computers will allow calculations beyond existing classical
computers. However, current technology is still too noisy and imperfect to
construct a universal digital quantum computer with quantum error correction.
Inspired by the evolution of classical computation, an alternative paradigm
merging the flexibility of digital quantum computation with the robustness of
analog quantum simulation has emerged. This universal paradigm is known as
digital-analog quantum computing. Here, we introduce an efficient
digital-analog quantum algorithm to compute the quantum Fourier transform, a
subroutine widely employed in several relevant quantum algorithms. We show
that, under reasonable assumptions about noise models, the fidelity of the
quantum Fourier transformation improves considerably using this approach when
the number of qubits involved grows. This suggests that, in the Noisy
Intermediate-Scale Quantum (NISQ) era, hybrid protocols combining digital and
analog quantum computing could be a sensible approach to reach useful quantum
supremacy.

Super-quantum discord is an extension of the quantum discord concept where
weak measurements are made instead of projective measurements. We study the
temperature behavior of the super-quantum discord for two real magnetic
materials. We extract information about super-quantum discord from the magnetic
susceptibility data for iron nitrosyl complexes $\mathrm{ Fe_2(SC_3
H_5N_2)_2(NO)_4}$ and binuclear Cu(II) acetate complex $\mathrm{[Cu_2
L(OAc)]\cdot 6 H_2O}$, where $\mathrm{ L}$ is a ligand that allows us to
compare the super-quantum discord with the standard one. The dependence of the
super-quantum discord on the parameter describing weak measurements is studied.
Obtained difference between super-quantum and quantum discords confirms the
detection of additional quantum correlations that are usually destroyed during
projective measurements. The use of the approach allows to predict
quantitatively in advance the advantages of use of weak measurements versus
projective one for quantum technologies in real settings where quantum discord
is used as resource. This can be relevant particularly in macroscopic quantum
systems where weak measurements can be used to extract information about the
system.

Methods of processing quantum data become more important as quantum computing
devices improve their quality towards fault tolerant universal quantum
computers. These methods include discrimination and filtering of quantum states
given as an input to the device that may find numerous applications in quantum
information technologies. In the present paper, we address a scheme of a
classification of input states, which is nondestructive and deterministic for
certain inputs, while probabilistic, in general case. This can be achieved by
incorporating phase estimation algorithm into the hybrid quantum-classical
computation scheme, where quantum block is trained classically. We perform
proof-of-principle implementation of this idea using superconducting quantum
processor of IBM Quantum Experience. Another aspect we are interested in is a
mitigation of errors occurring due to the quantum device imperfections. We
apply a series of heuristic tricks at the stage of classical postprocessing in
order to improve raw experimental data and to recognize patterns in them. These
ideas may find applications in other realization of hybrid quantum-classical
computations with noisy quantum machines.

Quantum computing is a unique computational approach that promises tremendous
performance that cannot be achieved by classical computers, although several
problems must be resolved to realize a practical quantum computing system for
easy use. Here, we propose a new system and theory for quantum computing that
employs single molecule confinement between electrodes. The striking features
of this system are (i) an individual molecule that exhibits quantum tunneling
can be regarded as a sequence of quantum gates, (ii) the quantum tunneling can
be encoded onto an array of quantum bits and observed without the contraction
of superposition states, and (iii) quantum computing by quantum tunneling can
be performed at room temperature. An adenine molecule is adopted as the single
molecule between electrodes, and conductance data are encoded onto quantum
states including entangled states, depending on the conductance values. As an
application of the new quantum system, molecule identification based on quantum
computing by quantum tunneling is demonstrated.

Quantum many body system in equilibrium can be effectively characterized
using the framework of quantum statistical mechanics. However, nonequilibrium
behaviour of quantum many body systems remains elusive, out of the range of
such a well established framework. Experiments in quantum simulators are now
opening up a route towards the generation of quantum states beyond this
equilibrium paradigm. As an example in closed quantum many body systems,
dynamical quantum phase transitions behave as phase transitions in time with
physical quantities becoming nonanalytic at critical times, extending important
principles such as universality to the nonequilibrium realm. Here, in solid
state quantum simulator we develop and experimentally demonstrate that
out-of-time-order correlators, a central concept to quantify quantum
information scrambling and quantum chaos, can be used to dynamically detect
nonoequilibrium phase transitions in the transverse field Ising model. We also
study the multiple quantum spectra, eventually observe the buildup of quantum
correlation. Further applications of this protocol could enable studies other
of exotic phenomena such as many body localization, and tests of the
holographic duality between quantum and gravitational systems.

Several quantum cryptographic schemes have been proposed and realized
experimentally in the past. However, even with an advancement in quantum
technology and escalated interest in the designing of direct secure quantum
communication schemes there are not many experimental implementations of these
cryptographic schemes. In this paper, we have provided a set of optical
circuits for such quantum cryptographic schemes, which have not yet been
realized experimentally by modifying some of our theoretically proposed secure
communication schemes. Specifically, we have proposed optical designs for the
implementation of two single photon and one entangled state based controlled
quantum dialogue schemes and subsequently reduced our optical designs to yield
simpler designs for realizing other secure quantum communication tasks, i.e.,
controlled deterministic secure quantum communication, quantum dialogue,
quantum secure direct communication, quantum key agreement, and quantum key
distribution. We have further proposed an optical design for an entanglement
swapping based deterministic secure quantum communication and its controlled
counterpart.

Since the introduction of quantum computation by Richard Feynman in 1982,
Quantum computation has shown exemplary results in various applications of
computer science including unstructured database search, factorization,
molecular simulations to name a few. Some of the recent developments include
quantum machine learning, quantum neural networks, quantum walks on graphs,
fault tolerant scalable quantum computers using error correction codes etc. One
of the crucial modern applications of quantum information is quantum
cryptography and secure key distribution over quantum channels which have
several advantages over classical channels, especially detection of
eavesdropping. Based on such properties of quantum systems and quantum
channels, In this paper we propose three secure key distribution protocols
based on a blend of classical and quantum channels. Also the proposed protocols
exploits the property of quantum computers to generate natural random numbers
that can be easily transmitted using a single qubit over a quantum channel and
can be used for distributing keys to the involved parties in a communication
network.

We proposed a practical quantum bit commitment protocol that possibly
requires less technological limitations on non-demolition measurements and
long-term quantum memories and moves closer to be unconditionally secure.

Arrays of optically trapped atoms excited to Rydberg states have recently
emerged as a competitive physical platform for quantum simulation and
computing, where high-fidelity state preparation and readout, quantum logic
gates and controlled quantum dynamics of more than 100 qubits have all been
demonstrated. These systems are now approaching the point where reliable
quantum computations with hundreds of qubits and realistically thousands of
multiqubit gates with low error rates should be within reach for the first
time. In this article we give an overview of the Rydberg quantum toolbox,
emphasizing the high degree of flexibility for encoding qubits, performing
quantum operations and engineering quantum many-body Hamiltonians. We then
review the state-of-the-art concerning high-fidelity quantum operations and
logic gates as well as quantum simulations in many-body regimes. Finally, we
discuss computing schemes that are particularly suited to the Rydberg platform
and some of the remaining challenges on the road to general purpose quantum
simulators and quantum computers.

We aim to explore if inside a quantum vertex algebras, we can find the right
notion of a quantum conformal algebra.

The recent advent of noisy intermediate-scale quantum devices, especially
near-term quantum computers, has sparked extensive research efforts concerned
with their possible applications. At the forefront of the considered approaches
are variational methods that use parametrized quantum circuits. The classical
and quantum Fisher information are firmly rooted in the field of quantum
sensing and have proven to be versatile tools to study such parametrized
quantum systems. Their utility in the study of other applications of noisy
intermediate-scale quantum devices, however, has only been discovered recently.
Hoping to stimulate more such applications, this article aims to further
popularize classical and quantum Fisher information as useful tools for
near-term applications beyond quantum sensing. We start with a tutorial that
builds an intuitive understanding of classical and quantum Fisher information
and outlines how both quantities can be calculated on near-term devices. We
also elucidate their relationship and how they are influenced by noise
processes. Next, we give an overview of the core results of the quantum sensing
literature and proceed to a comprehensive review of recent applications in
variational quantum algorithms and quantum machine learning.

Quantum classifiers provide sophisticated embeddings of input data in Hilbert
space promising quantum advantage. The advantage stems from quantum feature
maps encoding the inputs into quantum states with variational quantum circuits.
A recent work shows how to map discrete features with fewer quantum bits using
Quantum Random Access Coding (QRAC), an important primitive to encode binary
strings into quantum states. We propose a new method to embed discrete features
with trainable quantum circuits by combining QRAC and a recently proposed
strategy for training quantum feature map called quantum metric learning. We
show that the proposed trainable embedding requires not only as few qubits as
QRAC but also overcomes the limitations of QRAC to classify inputs whose
classes are based on hard Boolean functions. We numerically demonstrate its use
in variational quantum classifiers to achieve better performances in
classifying real-world datasets, and thus its possibility to leverage near-term
quantum computers for quantum machine learning.

While quantum weight enumerators establish some of the best upper bounds on
the minimum distance of quantum error-correcting codes, these bounds are not
optimized to quantify the performance of quantum codes under the effect of
arbitrary quantum channels that describe bespoke noise models. Herein, for any
Kraus decomposition of any given quantum channel, we introduce corresponding
quantum weight enumerators that naturally generalize the Shor-Laflamme quantum
weight enumerators. We establish an indirect linear relationship between these
generalized quantum weight enumerators by introducing an auxiliary exact weight
enumerator that completely quantifies the quantum code's projector, and is
independent of the underlying noise process. By additionally working within the
framework of approximate quantum error correction, we establish a general
framework for constructing a linear program that is infeasible whenever
approximate quantum error correcting codes with corresponding parameters do not
exist. Our linear programming framework allows us to establish the
non-existence of certain quantum codes that approximately correct amplitude
damping errors, and obtain non-trivial upper bounds on the maximum dimension of
a broad family of permutation-invariant quantum codes.

Solving Hamiltonian matrix is a central task in quantum many-body physics and
quantum chemistry. Here we propose a novel quantum algorithm named as a quantum
Heaviside eigen solver to calculate both the eigen values and eigen states of
the general Hamiltonian for quantum computers. A quantum judge is suggested to
determine whether all the eigen values of a given Hamiltonian is larger than a
certain threshold, and the lowest eigen value with an error smaller than
$\varepsilon $ can be obtained by dichotomy in $O\left( {{{\log }}{1 \over
\varepsilon }} \right)$ iterations of shifting Hamiltonian and performing
quantum judge. A quantum selector is proposed to calculate the corresponding
eigen states. Both quantum judge and quantum selector achieve quadratic speedup
from amplitude amplification over classical diagonalization methods. The
present algorithm is a universal quantum eigen solver for Hamiltonian in
quantum many-body systems and quantum chemistry. We test this algorithm on the
quantum simulator for a physical model to show its good feasibility.

Quantum error mitigation (QEM) is crucial for obtaining reliable results on
quantum computers by suppressing quantum noise with moderate resources. It is a
key factor for successful and practical quantum algorithm implementations in
the noisy intermediate scale quantum (NISQ) era. Since quantum-classical hybrid
algorithms can be executed with moderate and noisy quantum resources, combining
QEM with quantum-classical hybrid schemes is one of the most promising
directions toward practical quantum advantages. In this work, we show how the
variational quantum-neural hybrid eigensolver (VQNHE) algorithm, which
seamlessly combines the expressive power of a parameterized quantum circuit
with a neural network, is inherently noise resilient with a unique QEM
capacity, which is absent in vanilla variational quantum eigensolvers (VQE). We
carefully analyze and elucidate the asymptotic scaling of this unique QEM
capacity in VQNHE from both theoretical and experimental perspectives. Finally,
we propose a variational basis transformation for the Hamiltonian to be
measured under the VQNHE framework, yielding a powerful tri-optimization setup,
dubbed as VQNHE++. VQNHE++ can further enhance the quantum-neural hybrid
expressive power and error mitigation capacity.

In quantum information, most information processing processes involve quantum
channels. One manifestation of a quantum channel is quantum operation acting on
quantum states. The coherence of quantum operations can be considered as a
quantum resource, which can be exploited to perform certain quantum tasks. From
the viewpoint of Choi-Jamio{\l}kowski isomorphism, we study the coherence of
quantum operations in the framework of resource theory. We define the phase-out
superoperation and give the operation which transforms the Choi-Jamio{\l}kowski
state of a quantum operation to the Choi-Jamio{\l}kowski state of the another
quantum operation obtained by using the phase-out superoperation to act on the
quantum operation. The set of maximally incoherent superoperations, the set of
nonactivating coherent superoperations and the set of de-phase incoherent
superoperations are defined and we prove that these sets are closed to compound
operation and convex combination of quantum superoperations. Further, we
introduce the fidelity coherence measure of quantum operations and obtain the
exact form of the fidelity coherence measure of the unitary operations on the
single qubit.

Quantum information processing relies on precise control of non-classical
states in the presence of many uncontrolled environmental degrees of freedom --
requiring careful orchestration of how the relevant degrees of freedom interact
with that environment. These interactions are often viewed as detrimental, as
they dissipate energy and decohere quantum states. Nonetheless, when
controlled, dissipation is an essential tool for manipulating quantum
information: Dissipation engineering enables quantum measurement, quantum state
preparation, and quantum state stabilization. The progress of quantum device
technology, marked by improvements of characteristic coherence times and
extensible architectures for quantum control, has coincided with the
development of such dissipation engineering tools which interface quantum and
classical degrees of freedom. This Review presents dissipation as a fundamental
aspect of the measurement and control of quantum devices and highlights the
role of dissipation engineering for quantum error correction and quantum
simulation that enables quantum information processing on a practical scale.

Quantum repeaters pave the way for long-distance quantum communications and
quantum Internet, and the idea of quantum repeaters is based on entanglement
swapping which requires the implementation of controlled quantum gates.
Frequently measuring a quantum system affects its dynamics which is known as
the quantum Zeno effect (QZE). Beyond slowing down its evolution, QZE can be
used to control the dynamics of a quantum system by introducing a carefully
designed set of operations between measurements. Here, we propose an
entanglement swapping protocol based on QZE, which achieves almost unit
fidelity. Implementation of our protocol requires only simple frequent
threshold measurements and single particle rotations. We extend the proposed
entanglement swapping protocol to a series of repeater stations for
constructing quantum Zeno repeaters which also achieve almost unit fidelity
regardless of the number of repeaters. Requiring no controlled gates, our
proposal reduces the quantum circuit complexity of quantum repeaters. Our work
has potential to contribute to long distance quantum communications and quantum
computing via quantum Zeno effect.

With the advantages of high-speed parallel processing, quantum computers can
efficiently solve large-scale complex optimization problems in future networks.
However, due to the uncertain qubit fidelity and quantum channel noise,
distributed quantum computing which relies on quantum networks connected
through entanglement faces a lot of challenges for exchanging information
across quantum computers. In this paper, we propose an adaptive distributed
quantum computing approach to manage quantum computers and quantum channels for
solving optimization tasks in future networks. Firstly, we describe the
fundamentals of quantum computing and its distributed concept in quantum
networks. Secondly, to address the uncertainty of future demands of
collaborative optimization tasks and instability over quantum networks, we
propose a quantum resource allocation scheme based on stochastic programming
for minimizing quantum resource consumption. Finally, based on the proposed
approach, we discuss the potential applications for collaborative optimization
in future networks, such as smart grid management, IoT cooperation, and UAV
trajectory planning. Promising research directions that can lead to the design
and implementation of future distributed quantum computing frameworks are also
highlighted.

Entanglement distillation allows to convert noisy quantum states into
singlets, which can in turn be used for various quantum technological tasks,
such as quantum teleportation and quantum key distribution. Entanglement
dilution is the inverse process: singlets are converted into quantum states
with less entanglement. While the usefulness of distillation is apparent,
practical applications of entanglement dilution are less obvious. Here, we show
that entanglement dilution can increase the resilience of shared quantum states
to local noise. The increased resilience is observed even if diluting singlets
into states with arbitrarily little entanglement. We extend our analysis to
other quantum resource theories, such as quantum coherence, quantum
thermodynamics, and purity. For these resource theories, we demonstrate that
diluting pure quantum states into noisy ones can be advantageous for protecting
the system from noise. Our results demonstrate the usefulness of quantum
resource dilution, and provide a rare example for an advantage of noisy quantum
states over pure states in quantum information processing.

We prove that for a large class of quantum Fisher information, a quantum
channel is sufficient for a family of quantum states, i.e., the input states
can be recovered from the output, if and only if the quantum Fisher information
is preserved under the quantum channel. This class, for instance, includes
Winger-Yanase-Dyson skew information. On the other hand, interestingly, the SLD
quantum Fisher information, as the most popular example of quantum analog of
Fisher information, does not satisfy this property.
  Our recoverability result is obtained by studying Riemannian monotone metrics
on the quantum state space, i.e. metrics monotone decreasing under the action
of quantum channels, a property often called data processing inequality. For
two quantum states, the monotone metric gives the corresponding quantum
$\chi^2$ divergence. We obtain an approximate recovery result in the sense
that, if the quantum $\chi^2$ divergence is approximately preserved by a
quantum channel, then two states can be approximately recovered by the Petz
recovery map. We also obtain a universal recovery bound for the
$\chi_{\frac{1}{2}}$ divergence.
  Finally, we discuss applications in the context of quantum thermodynamics and
the resource theory of asymmetry.

Universal quantum algorithms (UQA) implemented on fault-tolerant quantum
computers are expected to achieve an exponential speedup over classical
counterparts. However, the deep quantum circuits makes the UQA implausible in
the current era. With only the noisy intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ) devices
in hand, we introduce the quantum-assisted quantum algorithm, which reduces the
circuit depth of UQA via NISQ technology. Based on this framework, we present
two quantum-assisted quantum algorithms for simulating open quantum systems,
which utilize two parameterized quantum circuits to achieve a short-time
evolution. We propose a variational quantum state preparation method, as a
subroutine to prepare the ancillary state, for loading a classical vector into
a quantum state with a shallow quantum circuit and logarithmic number of
qubits. We demonstrate numerically our approaches for a two-level system with
an amplitude damping channel and an open version of the dissipative transverse
field Ising model on two sites.

The postulates of quantum mechanics impose only unitary transformations on
quantum states, which is a severe limitation for quantum machine learning
algorithms. Quantum Splines (QSplines) have recently been proposed to
approximate quantum activation functions to introduce non-linearity in quantum
algorithms. However, QSplines make use of the HHL as a subroutine and require a
fault-tolerant quantum computer to be correctly implemented. This work proposes
the Generalised Hybrid Quantum Splines (GHQSplines), a novel method for
approximating non-linear quantum activation functions using hybrid
quantum-classical computation. The GHQSplines overcome the highly demanding
requirements of the original QSplines in terms of quantum hardware and can be
implemented using near-term quantum computers. Furthermore, the proposed method
relies on a flexible problem representation for non-linear approximation and it
is suitable to be embedded in existing quantum neural network architectures. In
addition, we provide a practical implementation of the GHQSplines using
Pennylane and show that our model outperforms the original QSplines in terms of
quality of fitting.

Quantum fingerprinting is a technique that maps classical input word to a
quantum state. The obtained quantum state is much shorter than the original
word, and its processing uses less resources, making it useful in quantum
algorithms, communication, and cryptography. One of the examples of quantum
fingerprinting is quantum automata algorithms for MOD_p languages, where p is a
prime number.
  However, implementing such an automaton on the current quantum hardware is
not efficient. Quantum fingerprinting maps a word of length N to a state of
O(log N) qubits, and uses O(N) unitary operations. Computing quantum
fingerprint using all available qubits of the current quantum computers is
infeasible due to a large number of quantum operations.
  To make quantum fingerprinting practical, we should optimize the circuit for
depth instead of width in contrast to the previous works. We propose explicit
methods of quantum fingerprinting based on tools from additive combinatorics,
such as generalized arithmetic progressions (GAPs), and prove that these
methods provide circuit depth comparable to a probabilistic method. We also
compare our method to prior work on explicit quantum fingerprinting methods.

The traditional quantum speed limits are not attainable for many physical
processes, as they tend to be loose and fail to determine the exact time taken
by quantum systems to evolve. To address this, we derive exact quantum speed
limits for the unitary dynamics of pure-state quantum system that outperform
the existing quantum speed limits. Using these exact quantum speed limits, we
can precisely estimate the evolution time for two- and higher-dimensional
quantum systems. Additionally, for both finite- and infinite-dimensional
quantum systems, we derive an improved Mandelstam-Tamm bound for pure states
and show that this bound always saturates for any unitary generated by
self-inverse Hamiltonians. Furthermore, we show that our speed limits establish
an upper bound on the quantum computational circuit complexity. These results
will have a significant impact on our understanding of quantum physics as well
as rapidly developing quantum technologies, such as quantum computing, quantum
control and quantum thermal machines.

Gate-defined quantum dots in silicon-germanium heterostructures have become a
compelling platform for quantum computation and simulation. Thus far,
developments have been limited to quantum dots defined in a single plane. Here,
we propose to advance beyond planar systems by exploiting heterostructures with
multiple quantum wells. We demonstrate the operation of a gate-defined vertical
double quantum dot in a strained germanium double quantum well. In quantum
transport measurements we observe stability diagrams corresponding to a double
quantum dot system. We analyze the capacitive coupling to the nearby gates and
find two quantum dots accumulated under the central plunger gate. We extract
the position and estimated size, from which we conclude that the double quantum
dots are vertically stacked in the two quantum wells. We discuss challenges and
opportunities and outline potential applications in quantum computing and
quantum simulation.

Digital-analog quantum computing (DAQC) offers a promising approach to
addressing the challenges of building a practical quantum computer. By
efficiently allocating resources between digital and analog quantum circuits,
DAQC paves the way for achieving optimal performance. We propose an algorithm
designed to enhance the performance of quantum annealing. This method employs a
quantum gate to estimate the goodness of the final annealing state and find the
ground state of combinatorial optimization problems. We explore two strategies
for integrating the quantum annealing circuit into the DAQC framework: (1) for
state preparation, and (2) for embedding within the quantum gate. While the
former strategy does not yield performance improvements, we discover that the
latter enhances performance within a specific range of annealing time.
Algorithms demonstrating enhanced performance utilize the imaginary part of the
inner product of two states from different quantum annealing settings. This
measure reflects not only the energy of the classical cost function but also
the trajectory of the quantum dynamics. This study provides an example of how
processing quantum data using a quantum circuit can outperform classical data
processing, which discards quantum information.

We propose a method of quantum machine learning called quantum mutual
information neural estimation (QMINE) for estimating von Neumann entropy and
quantum mutual information, which are fundamental properties in quantum
information theory. The QMINE proposed here basically utilizes a technique of
quantum neural networks (QNNs), to minimize a loss function that determines the
von Neumann entropy, and thus quantum mutual information, which is believed
more powerful to process quantum datasets than conventional neural networks due
to quantum superposition and entanglement. To create a precise loss function,
we propose a quantum Donsker-Varadhan representation (QDVR), which is a quantum
analog of the classical Donsker-Varadhan representation. By exploiting a
parameter shift rule on parameterized quantum circuits, we can efficiently
implement and optimize the QNN and estimate the quantum entropies using the
QMINE technique. Furthermore, numerical observations support our predictions of
QDVR and demonstrate the good performance of QMINE.

We generalize the quantum "pigeonhole paradox" to quantum paradoxes involving
arbitrary types of particle relations, including orderings, functions and
graphs.

Quantum coherence in a qubit is vulnerable to environmental noise. When long
quantum calculation is run on a quantum processor without error correction, the
noise often causes fatal errors and messes up the calculation. Here, we propose
quantum-circuit distillation to generate quantum circuits that are short but
have enough functions to produce an output almost identical to that of the
original circuits. The distilled circuits are less sensitive to the noise and
can complete calculation before the quantum coherence is broken in the qubits.
We created a quantum-circuit distillator by building a reinforcement learning
model, and applied it to the inverse quantum Fourier transform (IQFT) and
Shor's quantum prime factorization. The obtained distilled circuit allows
correct calculation on IBM-Quantum processors. By working with the
quantum-circuit distillator, we also found a general rule to generate quantum
circuits approximating the general $n$-qubit IQFTs. The quantum-circuit
distillator offers a new approach to improve performance of noisy quantum
processors.

Thought experiments are where logical reasoning meets storytelling,
catalysing progress in quantum science and technology. Schr\"odinger's famous
cat brought quantum science to the public consciousness, while Deutsch's
thought experiment to test the many-worlds and Copenhagen interpretations
involved the first conception of a quantum computer. I will show how presenting
thought experiments using quantum circuits can demystify apparent quantum
paradoxes, and provide fun, conceptually important activities for learners to
implement themselves on near-term quantum devices. Additionally, I will explain
how thought experiments can be used as a first introduction to quantum, and
outline a workshop based on the "quantum bomb tester" for school students as
young as 11. This paper draws upon my experience in developing and delivering
quantum computing workshops in Oxford, and in creating a quantum paradoxes
content series with IBM Quantum of videos, blogs and code tutorials.

We have recently proposed a fully quantum-mechanical definition of the
asymptotic phase for quantum nonlinear oscillators, which is also applicable in
the strong quantum regime [Kato and Nakao 2022 Chaos 32 063133]. In this study,
we propose a definition of the quantum asymptotic amplitude for quantum
oscillatory systems, which extends naturally the definition of the asymptotic
amplitude for classical nonlinear oscillators on the basis of the Koopman
operator theory. We introduce the asymptotic amplitude for quantum oscillatory
systems by using the eigenoperator of the backward Liouville operator
associated with the largest non-zero real eigenvalue. Using examples of the
quantum van der Pol oscillator with the quantum Kerr effect, exhibiting quantum
limit-cycle oscillations, and the quantum van der Pol model with the quantum
squeezing and degenerate parametric oscillator with nonlinear damping,
exhibiting quantum noise-induced oscillations, we illustrate that the proposed
quantum asymptotic amplitude appropriately yields isostable amplitude values
that decay exponentially with a constant rate.

Variational quantum circuits are one of the promising ways to exploit the
advantages of quantum computing in the noisy intermediate-scale quantum
technology era. The design of the quantum circuit architecture might greatly
affect the performance capability of the quantum algorithms. The quantum
architecture search is the process of automatically designing quantum circuit
architecture, aiming at finding the optimal quantum circuit composition
architecture by the algorithm for a given task, so that the algorithm can learn
to design the circuit architecture. Compared to manual design, quantum
architecture search algorithms are more effective in finding quantum circuits
with better performance capabilities. In this paper, based on the deep
reinforcement learning, we propose an approach for quantum circuit architecture
search. The sampling of the circuit architecture is learnt through
reinforcement learning based controller. Layer-based search is also used to
accelerate the computational efficiency of the search algorithm. Applying to
data classification tasks we show that the method can search for quantum
circuit architectures with better accuracies. Moreover, the circuit has a
smaller number of quantum gates and parameters.

In this paper, we construct a universal C*-algebraic quantum group out of an
algebraic one. We show that this universal C*-algebraic quantum group has the
same rich structure as its reduced companion. This universal C*-algebraic
quantum group also satifies an upcoming definition of Masuda, Nakagami &
Woronowicz except for the possible non-faithfulness of the left Haar weight.

We construct quantum operators solving the quantum versions of the
Sturm-Liouville equation and the resolvent equation, and show the existence of
conserved currents. The construction depends on the following input data: the
basic quantum field $O(k)$ and the regularization .

Induced representations for quantum groups are defined starting from
coisotropic quantum subgroups and their main properties are proved. When the
coisotropic quantum subgroup has a suitably defined section such
representations can be realized on associated quantum bundles on general
embeddable quantum homogeneous spaces.

We outline the recent classification of differential structures for all main
classes of quantum groups. We also outline the algebraic notion of `quantum
manifold' and `quantum Riemannian manifold' based on quantum group principal
bundles, a formulation that works over general unital algebras.

We present a method to construct induced representations of quantum algebras
having the structure of bicrossproduct. We apply this procedure to some quantum
kinematical algebras in (1+1)--dimensions with this kind of structure:
null-plane quantum Poincare algebra, non-standard quantum Galilei algebra and
quantum kappa Galilei algebra.

Quantum super 2-shpheres and the corresponding quantum super transformation
group are introduced in analogy to the well-known quantum 2-shpheres and
quantum SL(2), connection between little $t$-Jacobi polynomials and the finite
dimensional representations of the quantum super group is formulated, and the
Peter-Weyl theorem is obtained.

The quantum hydrodynamic model for charged particle systems is extended to
the cases of non zero magnetic fields. In this way, quantum corrections to
magnetohydrodynamics are obtained starting from the quantum hydrodynamical
model with magnetic fields. The quantum magnetohydrodynamics model is analyzed
in the infinite conductivity limit. The conditions for equilibrium in ideal
quantum magnetohydrodynamics are established. Translationally invariant exact
equilibrium solutions are obtained in the case of the ideal quantum
magnetohydrodynamic model.

In this paper we define a quantum version of the ``fusion'' tensor product of
two representations of an affine Kac-Moody algebra.It is replaced by what we
call fusion action of the category of finite-dimensional representations of
quantum affine algebra on its highest weight representations. We construct a
quantum version of the associativity constraint. We give categorical treatment
of the subject and related questions ( like quantum Knizhnik-Zamolodchikov
equations).

In the present paper the algebras of functions on quantum homogeneous spaces
are studied. The author introduces the algebras of kernels of intertwining
integral operators and constructs quantum analogues of the Poisson and Radon
transforms for some quantum homogeneous spaces. Some applications and the
relation to $q$-special functions are discussed.

I propose a quantum trajectories approach to parametric identification of the
effective Hamiltonian for a Markovian open quantum system, and discuss an
application motivated by recent experiments in cavity quantum electrodynamics.
This example illustrates a strategy for quantum parameter estimation that
efficiently utilizes the information carried by correlations between
measurements distributed in time.

We show that the lambda-q calculus can efficiently simulate quantum Turing
machines by showing how the lambda-q calculus can efficiently simulate a class
of quantum cellular automaton that are equivalent to quantum Turing machines.
We conclude by noting that the lambda-q calculus may be strictly stronger than
quantum computers because NP-complete problems such as satisfiability are
efficiently solvable in the lambda-q calculus but there is a widespread doubt
that they are efficiently solvable by quantum computers.

A historical review is given of the emergence of the idea of the quantum
logic gate from the theory of reversible Boolean gates. I highlight the quantum
XOR or controlled NOT as the fundamental two-bit gate for quantum computation.
This gate plays a central role in networks for quantum error correction.

I report two general methods to construct quantum convolutional codes for
$N$-state quantum systems. Using these general methods, I construct a quantum
convolutional code of rate 1/4, which can correct one quantum error for every
eight consecutive quantum registers.

We shortly review the progress in the domain of deterministic chaos for
quantum dynamical systems. With the appropriately extended definition of
quantum Lyapunov exponent we analyze various quantum dynamical maps. It is
argued that, within Quantum Mechanics, irregular evolution for properly chosen
observables can coexist with regular and predictable evolution of states.

After a brief introduction to both quantum computation and quantum error
correction, we show how to construct quantum error-correcting codes based on
classical BCH codes. With these codes, decoding can exploit additional
information about the position of errors. This error model - the quantum
erasure channel - is discussed. Finally, parameters of quantum BCH codes are
provided.

Making use of an universal quantum network or QCPU proposed by me [6], some
special quantum networks for simulating some quantum systems are given out.
Specially, it is obtained that the quantum network for the time evolution
operator which can simulate, in general, Schr\"odinger equation.

Making use of an universal quantum network -- QCPU proposed by
me\upcite{My1}, it is obtained that the whole quantum network which can
implement some the known quantum algorithms including Deutsch algorithm,
quantum Fourier transformation, Shor's algorithm and Grover's algorithm.

We describe a simulation method for a quantum spin model of a generic,
general purpose quantum computer. The use of this quantum computer simulator is
illustrated through several implementations of Grover's database search
algorithm. Some preliminary results on the stability of quantum algorithms are
presented.

The complementary roles played by parallel quantum computation and quantum
measurement in originating the quantum speed-up are illustrated through an
analogy with a famous metaphor by J.L. Borges.

We review the properties of the quantum relative entropy function and discuss
its application to problems of classical and quantum information transfer and
to quantum data compression. We then outline further uses of relative entropy
to quantify quantum entanglement and analyze its manipulation.

We consider the problem of reversing quantum dynamics, with the goal of
preserving an initial state's quantum entanglement or classical correlation
with a reference system. We exhibit an approximate reversal operation, adapted
to the initial density operator and the ``noise'' dynamics to be reversed. We
show that its error in preserving either quantum or classical information is no
more than twice that of the optimal reversal operation. Applications to quantum
algorithms and information transmission are discussed.

We study the phase space of periodically modulated gravitational cavity by
means of quantum recurrence phenomena. We report that the quantum recurrences
serve as a tool to connect phase space of the driven system with spectrum in
quantum domain. With the help of quantum recurrences we investigate the
quasi-energy spectrum of the system for a certain fixed modulation strength. In
addition, we study transition of spectrum from discrete to continuum as a
function of modulation strength.

I consider quantum protocols for clock synchronization, and investigate in
particular whether entanglement distillation or quantum error-correcting codes
can improve the robustness of these protocols. I also draw attention to some
unanswered questions about the relativistic theory of quantum measurement. This
paper is based on a talk given at the NASA-DoD Workshop on Quantum Information
and Clock Synchronization for Space Applications (QuICSSA), September 25-26,
2000.

Section headings: 1 Qubits, gates and networks 2 Quantum arithmetic and
function evaluations 3 Algorithms and their complexity 4 From interferometers
to computers 5 The first quantum algorithms 6 Quantum search 7 Optimal phase
estimation 8 Periodicity and quantum factoring 9 Cryptography 10 Conditional
quantum dynamics 11 Decoherence and recoherence 12 Concluding remarks

The quantum analogues of classical variable-length codes are
indeterminate-length quantum codes, in which codewords may exist in
superpositions of different lengths. This paper explores some of their
properties. The length observable for such codes is governed by a quantum
version of the Kraft-McMillan inequality. Indeterminate-length quantum codes
also provide an alternate approach to quantum data compression.

We continue the analysis of quantum-like description of markets and
economics. The approach has roots in the recently developed quantum game theory
and quantum computing. The present paper is devoted to quantum bargaining games
which are a special class of quantum market games without institutionalized
clearinghouses.

We continue the analysis of quantum-like description of markets and
economics. The approach has roots in the recently developed quantum game theory
and quantum computing. The present paper is devoted to quantum English auction
which are a special class of quantum market games. The approach allows to
calculate profit intensities for various possible strategies.

The relations between quantum coherence and quantum interference are
discussed. A general method for generation of quantum coherence through
interference-induced state selection is introduced and then applied to `simple'
atomic systems under two-photon transitions, with applications in quantum
optics and laser cooling.

Recent development in quantum computation and quantum information theory
allows to extend the scope of game theory for the quantum world. The paper is
devoted to the analysis of interference of quantum strategies in quantum market
games.

Based on earlier work on regular quantum graphs we show that a large class of
scaling quantum graphs with arbitrary topology are explicitly analytically
solvable. This is surprising since quantum graphs are excellent models of
quantum chaos and quantum chaotic systems are not usually explicitly
analytically solvable.

Quantum discord was proposed as an information theoretic measure of the
``quantumness'' of correlations. I show that discord determines the difference
between the efficiency of quantum and classical Maxwell's demons -- that is,
entities that can or cannot measure nonlocal observables or carry out
conditional quantum operations -- in extracting work from collections of
correlated quantum systems.

Recent experiments confirm that quantum teleportation is possible at least
for states of photons and nuclear spins. The quantum teleportation is not only
a curious effect but a fundamental protocol of quantum communication and
quantum computing. The principles of the quantum teleportation and the
entanglement swapping are explained, and physical realizations of teleportation
of optical and atomic states are discussed.

The key step in classical convolution and correlation algorithms, the
componentwise multiplication of vectors after initial Fourier Transforms, is
shown to be physically impossible to do on quantum states. Then this is used to
show that computing the convolution or correlation of quantum state
coefficients violates quantum mechanics, making convolution and correlation of
quantum coefficients physically impossible.

We present a quantum no-key protocol for direct and secure transmission of
quantum and classical messages based on simple Boolean function computation
with several quantum gates and Shamir's interactive idea of classical message
encryption. This protocol has inherent personal identification and message
authentication. It probably is the first quantum protocol that can resist the
man-in-the-middle attack by itself.

A new proof of the impossibility of a universal quantum-classical dynamics is
given. It has at least two consequences. The standard paradigm ``quantum system
is measured by a classical apparatus" is untenable, while a quantum matter can
be consistently coupled only with a quantum gravity.

Quantum walks are quantum counterparts of Markov chains. In this article, we
give a brief overview of quantum walks, with emphasis on their algorithmic
applications.

The schemes for fault-tolerant postselected quantum computation given in
[Knill, Fault-Tolerant Postselected Quantum Computation: Schemes,
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0402171] are analyzed to determine their
error-tolerance. The analysis is based on computer-assisted heuristics. It
indicates that if classical and quantum communication delays are negligible,
then scalable qubit-based quantum computation is possible with errors above 1%
per elementary quantum gate.

In this paper the possibility of the generation of the thermal waves in 2D
electron gas is investigated. In the frame of the quantum heat transport theory
the 2D quantum hyperbolic heat transfer equation is formulated and numerically
solved. The obtained solutions are the thermal waves in electron 2D gases. As
an exapmle the thermal waves in quantum corrals are described.
  Key words: 2D electron gas, quantum corrals, thermal waves.

Quantum information is a rapidly advancing area of interdisciplinary
research. It may lead to real-world applications for communication and
computation unavailable without the exploitation of quantum properties such as
nonorthogonality or entanglement. We review the progress in quantum information
based on continuous quantum variables, with emphasis on quantum optical
implementations in terms of the quadrature amplitudes of the electromagnetic
field.

Quantum secret sharing schemes encrypting a quantum state into a multipartite
entangled state are treated. The lower bound on the dimension of each share
given by Gottesman [Phys. Rev. A \textbf{61}, 042311 (2000)] is revisited based
on a relation between the reversibility of quantum operations and the Holevo
information. We also propose a threshold ramp quantum secret sharing scheme and
evaluate its coding efficiency.

A trusted quantum relay is introduced to enable quantum key distribution
links to form the basic legs in a quantum key distribution network. The idea is
based on the well-known intercept/resend eavesdropping. The same scheme can be
used to make quantum key distribution between several parties. No entanglement
is required.

Quantum relative entropy $D(\rho\|\sigma)\defeq\Tr \rho (\log \rho- \log
\sigma)$ plays an important role in quantum information and related fields.
However, there are many quantum analogues of relative entropy. In this paper,
we characterize these analogues from information geometrical viewpoint. We also
consider the naturalness of quantum relative entropy among these analogues.

We give a proposal for the physical implementation of a quantum shutter. This
shutter is a mechanism able to close the passage of light through a slit when
present. As it must be a quantum mechanical object, able to show superposition,
interesting quantum effects are observed. Finally, we review some applications
of the quantum shutter to build quantum memories and a CNOT gate.

The present Thesis covers the subject of the characterization of entangled
states by recourse to entropic measures, as well as the description of
entanglement related to several issues in quantum mechanics, such as the speed
of a quantum evolution or the connections existing between quantum entanglement
and quantum phase transitions.

We present a consistent formulation of quantum game theory that accommodates
all possible strategies in Hilbert space. The physical content of the quantum
strategy is revealed as a family of classical games representing altruistic
game play supplemented by quantum interferences. Crucial role of the
entanglement in quantum strategy is illustrated by an example of quantum game
representing the Bell's experiment.

A quantum algorithm is a set of instructions for a quantum computer, however,
unlike algorithms in classical computer science their results cannot be
guaranteed. A quantum system can undergo two types of operation, measurement
and quantum state transformation, operations themselves must be unitary
(reversible). Most quantum algorithms involve a series of quantum state
transformations followed by a measurement. Currently very few quantum
algorithms are known and no general design methodology exists for their
construction.

The fractal character of some quantum properties has been shown for systems
described by continuous variables. Here, a definition of quantum fractal states
is given that suits the discrete systems used in quantum information
processing, including quantum coding and quantum computing. Several important
examples are provided.

The resonant heating of a harmonically trapped ion by a standing-wave light
field is described as a quantum stochastic process combining a coherent
Schroedinger evolution with Bohr-Einstein quantum jumps. Quantum and
semi-quantum treatments are compared.

The quantum marginal problem asks, given a set of reduced quantum states of a
multipartite system, whether there exists a joint quantum state consistent with
these reduced states. The quantum marginal problem is known to be hard to solve
in general as it is a variant of the N-representability problem. We provide
entropic bounds on the number of orthogonal solutions to the quantum marginal
problem.

Quantum games are usually considered as games with strategies defined not by
the standard Kolmogorovian probabilistic measure but by the probability
amplitude used in quantum physics. The reason for the use of the probability
amplitude or "quantum probabilistic measure", is the nondistributive lattice
occurring in physical situations with quantum microparticles. In our paper we
give examples of getting nondistributive orthomodular lattices in some special
macroscopic situations without use of quantum microparticles.

We discuss quantum information processing machines. We start with single
purpose machines that either redistribute quantum information or identify
quantum states. We then move on to machines that can perform a number of
functions, with the function they perform being determined by a program, which
is itself a quantum state. Examples of both deterministic and probabilistic
programmable machines are given, and we conclude with a discussion of the
utility of quantum programs.

A selected set of topics in quantum phase transition is discussed. It
includes dissipative quantum phase transitions, the role of disorder, and the
relevance of quantum phase transition to measurement theory in quantum
mechanics.

Dynamical algebra notion of quantum degrees of freedom is utilized to study
the relation between quantum dynamical integrability and generalized
entanglement. It is argued that a quantum dynamical system generates
generalized entanglement by internal dynamics if and only if it is quantum
non-integrable. Several examples are used to illustrate the relation.

We give a quantum deformation of the chiral super Minkowski space in four
dimensions as the big cell inside a quantum super Grassmannian. The
quantization is performed in such way that the actions of the Poincar\'e and
conformal quantum supergroups on the quantum Minkowski and quantum conformal
superspaces are presented.

Quantum channels are known to provide qualitatively better information
transfer capacities over their classical counterparts. Examples include quantum
cryptography, quantum dense coding, and quantum teleportation. This is a short
review on paradigmatic quantum communication protocols in both bipartite as
well as multipartite scenarios.

Knowledge of optimal quantum measurements is important for a wide range of
situations, including quantum communication and quantum metrology. Quantum
measurements are usually optimised with an ideal experimental realisation in
mind. Real devices and detectors are, however, imperfect. This has to be taken
into account when optimising quantum measurements. In this paper, we derive the
optimal minimum-cost and minimum-error measurements for a general model of
imperfect detection.

Quantum processes describe concurrent communicating systems that may involve
quantum information. We propose a notion of open bisimulation for quantum
processes and show that it provides both a sound and complete proof methodology
for a natural extensional behavioural equivalence between quantum processes. We
also give a modal characterisation of open bisimulation, by extending the
Hennessy-Milner logic to a quantum setting.

The quotients of a (non-orientable) quantum Seifert manifold by circle
actions are described. In this way quantum weighted real projective spaces that
include the quantum disc and the quantum real projective space as special cases
are obtained. Bounded irreducible representations of the coordinate algebras
and the K-groups of the algebras of continuous functions on quantum weighted
real projective spaces are presented.

This is primarily a pedagogical paper. The paper re-visits some well-known
quantum information theory inequalities. It does this from a quantum Bayesian
networks perspective. The paper illustrates some of the benefits of using
quantum Bayesian networks to discuss quantum SIT (Shannon Information Theory).

An approach to the foundations of quantum theory is advertised that proceeds
by "reverse engineering" quantum field theory. As a concrete instance of this
approach, the general boundary formulation of quantum theory is outlined.

Review of the probability representation of quantum mechanics and the
symplectic tomography approach are presented. The examples of Gaussian states
of nanoelectric circuit, Josephson junction, and two interacting high-quality
resonant circuits are considered. The Shannon entropy, quantum information,
fidelity, and purity of quantum states in the tomographic representation of
quantum mechanics are studied.

This is a PhD dissertation on the latest numerical quantum estimation schemes
as of 2012, submitted to the National University of Singapore. The main content
of the thesis focuses on accessing quantum information with informationally
incomplete measurements to reconstruct quantum states of large quantum systems,
as well as to reduce the amount of resources to reconstruct quantum channels.

We study the (compact) quantum subgroups of the compact quantum group
$SU_{-1}(3)$: we show that any non-classical such quantum subgroup is a twist
of a compact subgroup of SU(3) or is isomorphic to a quantum subgroup of
$U_{-1}(2)$.

This is the chapter \emph{Topological Codes} of the book \emph{Quantum Error
Correction}, edited by Daniel A. Lidar and Todd A. Brun, Cambridge University
Press, New York, 2013.
  http://www.cambridge.org/us/academic/subjects/physics/quantum-physics-quantum-information-and-quantum-computation/quantum-error-correction

In his recent paper arXiv:1312.7738, the author discussed $J$-Hermitian
quantum mechanics and showed that $PT$-symmetric quantum mechanics is
essentially $J$-Hermitian quantum mechanics. In this paper, the author
discusses finite $J$-Hermitian quantum mechanics which is derived naturally
from its continuum one and its relationship with finite $PT$-symmetric quantum
mechanics.

The purpose of the paper is to study the condition for a probability
distribution family to a quantum state family. This is an (relatively) easy
example of quantum version of "comparison of statistical experiments", which
had turned out to supply deep insight into the foundation of classical and
quantum statistics \cite{Strasser}\cite{Torgersen}. It turns out use of maximal
quantum $f$-divergence is useful in characterizing the classical-quantum
transformability.

The quantum discord was introduced by Ollivier, Zurek, Henderson and Vedral
as an indicator of the degree of quantumness of mixed states. In this paper, we
give out the decomposition condition of quantum discords. Moreover, we show
that under the condition, the quantum correlations between the quantum systems
can be captured completely by the entanglement measure.

Classical physics fails where quantum physics prevails. This common
understanding applies to quantum phenomena that are acknowledged to be beyond
the reach of classical physics. Here, we make an attempt at weakening this
solid belief that classical physics is unfit to explain the quantum world. The
trial run is the quantization of the free radiation field that will be
addressed by following a strategy that is free from operators or
quantum-mechanical concepts

The paper discuss the structure of quantum mechanics and uniqueness of its
postulates.
  The Born rule for quantum probabilities is fixed by requirement of
nonexistence of quantum telepathy.
  Von Neumann projection postulate describes the transformation of quantum
state under the condition of no-interaction measurement. Projection postulate
could be considered as transition to conditional probability under the
condition of a certain result of quantum measurement.

The Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt-type noncontextuality inequality and the
Svetlichny inequality are derived from the Alicki-Van Ryn quantumness witness.
Thus a connection between quantumness and quantum contextuality, and that
between quantumness and genuine multipartite nonlocality, are established.

This study investigates unitary equivalent classes of one-dimensional quantum
walks. We prove that one-dimensional quantum walks are unitary equivalent to
quantum walks of Ambainis type and that translation-invariant one-dimensional
quantum walks are Szegedy walks. We also present a necessary and sufficient
condition for a one-dimensional quantum walk to be a Szegedy walk.

The paper is devoted to the problem of multivariate polynomial interpolation
and its application to quantum secret sharing. We show that using quantum
Fourier transform one can produce the protocol for quantum secret sharing
distribution.

PhD thesis dealing with various aspects of multipartite entanglement, such as
entanglement measures, absolutely maximally entangled states, bell
inequalities, entanglement spectrum and quantum frustration. Also some quantum
algorithms run with the IBM quantum computer are covered, together with others
applied to adiabatic quantum computation and quantum thermodynamics.

A local description of quantum subsystems can be used to construct ontologies
of the full quantum predictions. This paper communicates one possible way to do
so. A retrocausal interpretation of quantum mechanics where the de Broglie-Bohm
particles are the retrocausal agents is developed. This interpretation is
constrained to be compatible with the existence of a local realist description
of quantum subsystems.

In an effort to achieve our aims (getting larger quantum system) in the
recent reformulation of quantum mechanics without potential function [1-5], we
obtained a new quantum system associated with Meixner Pollaczek Orthogonal
polynomial class (hereby called Meixner - Pollaczek Quantum system). The energy
spectrum and wave function of the quantum system were given. To the best of our
knowledge, this quantum system is not found in physics literatures.

We study the cut-off phenomenon for random walks on free unitary quantum
groups coming from quantum conjugacy classes of classical reflections. We
obtain in particular a quantum analogue of the result of U. Porod concerning
certain mixtures of such reflections. We also study random walks on quantum
reflection groups and more generally free wreath products of finite group by
quantum permutation groups.

A preliminary overview of measurement-based quantum computation in the
setting of symmetry and topological phases of quantum matter is given. The
underlying mechanism for universal quantum computation by teleportation or
symmetry are analyzed, with the emphasis on the relation with tensor-network
states in the presence of various symmetries. Perspectives are also given for
the role of symmetry and phases of quantum matter in measurement-based quantum
computation and fault tolerance.

In this paper we formulate a kind of new geometric measure of quantum
correlations. This new measure is in terms of the quantum Tsallis relative
entropy and can be viewed as a one-parameter extension quantum discordlike
measure that satisfies all requirements of a good measure of quantum
correlations. It is of an elegant analytic expression and contains several
existing good quantum correlation measures as special cases.

A new quantum-stochastic differential calculus is derived for representing
continuous quantum measurement of the position operator. Closed nonlinear
quantum-stochastic differential equation is given for the quantum state of the
observed particle. Possible physical realization of continuous position
measurement is constructed.

Quantum billiards have been simulated so far in many ways, but in this work a
new aproximation is considerated. This study is based on the quantum billiard
already obtained by others authors via a tensor product of two 1-D quantum
walks . Chaotic and non chaotic billiards are tested.

We investigate the coherence of quantum channels and establish a resource
theory for quantifying the coherence of quantum channels via Choi matrix. To
this aim, we define the incoherent channels and incoherent superchannels. This
theory recovers the case of quantum states when we view quantum states as a
special case of quantum channels and also, this theory allows some analytical
expressions for coherence measures.

We derive detailed and integral quantum fluctuation theorems for heat
exchange in a quantum correlated bipartite thermal system using the framework
of dynamic Bayesian networks. Contrary to the usual two-projective-measurement
scheme that is known to destroy quantum features, these fluctuation relations
fully capture quantum correlations and quantum coherence at arbitrary times.

Collapse models implement a progressive loss of quantum coherence when the
mass and the complexity of quantum systems increase. We will review such models
and the current attempts to test their predicted loss of quantum coherence.

A novel quantum time dilation effect is shown to arise when a clock moves in
a quantum superposition of two relativistic velocities. This effect is argued
to be measurable using existing atomic interferometry techniques, potentially
offering a new test of relativistic quantum theory.

Quantum discord is an effective measure of quantum correlation introduced by
Olliver and Zurek. We evaluate analytically the quantum discord for a large
family of non-X-states. Exact solutions of the quantum discord are obtained of
the four parametric space for non-X-states. Dynamic behavior of the quantum
discord is also explored under the action of the Kraus operator.

This paper provides a brief introduction to learning control of quantum
systems. In particular, the following aspects are outlined, including
gradient-based learning for optimal control of quantum systems, evolutionary
computation for learning control of quantum systems, learning-based quantum
robust control, and reinforcement learning for quantum control.

We propose network benchmarking: a procedure to efficiently benchmark the
quality of a quantum network link connecting quantum processors in a quantum
network. This procedure is based on the standard randomized benchmarking
protocol and provides an estimate for the fidelity of a quantum network link.
We provide statistical analysis of the protocol as well as a simulated
implementation inspired by NV-center systems using Netsquid, a special purpose
simulator for noisy quantum networks.

We study the Bell nonlocality of high dimensional quantum systems based on
quantum entanglement. A quantitative relationship between the maximal
expectation value B of Bell operators and the quantum entanglement concurrence
C is obtained for even dimension pure states, with the upper and lower bounds
of B governed by C.

We introduce quantum monadic and quantum cylindric algebras. These are
adaptations to the quantum setting of the monadic algebras of Halmos, and
cylindric algebras of Henkin, Monk and Tarski, that are used in algebraic
treatments of classical and intuitionistic predicate logic. Primary examples in
the quantum setting come from von Neumann algebras and subfactors. Here we
develop the basic properties of these quantum monadic and cylindric algebras
and relate them to quantum predicate logic.

Especially sparse quantum states can be efficiently encoded with simple
classical data structures. We show the admissibility of using a classical
database to encode quantum states for a few practical examples and argue in
favor of further optimizations for quantum simulation targeting simpler, only
'semi-quantum' circuits.

The complexity of a quantum gate, defined as the minimal number of elementary
gates to build it, is an important concept in quantum information and
computation. It is shown recently that the complexity of quantum gates built
from random quantum circuits almost surely grows linearly with the number of
building blocks. In this article, we provide two short proofs of this fact. We
also discuss a discrete version of quantum circuit complexity growth.

The quantum discord of bipartite systems is one of the best-known measures of
non-classical correlations and an important quantum resource. In the recent
work appeared in [Phys. Rev. Lett 2020, 124:110401], the quantum discord has
been generalized to multipartite systems. In this paper, we give analytic
solutions of the quantum discord for tripartite states with fourteen
parameters.

Instead of producing quantum languages that are fit for current quantum
computers, we build a language from standard classical assembler and augment it
with quantum capabilities so that quantum algorithms become a subset of it.
This paves the way for the development of hybrid algorithms directly from
classical software, which is not feasible on today's hardware but might inspire
future quantum programmers.

We develop genetic algorithms for searching quantum circuits, in particular
stabilizer quantum error correction codes. Quantum codes equivalent to notable
examples such as the 5-qubit perfect code, Shor's code, and the 7-qubit color
code are evolved out of initially random quantum circuits. We anticipate
evolution as a promising tool in the NISQ era, with applications such as the
search for novel topological ordered states, quantum compiling, and hardware
optimization.

A few conventions for thinking about and writing quantum pseudocode are
proposed. The conventions can be used for presenting any quantum algorithm down
to the lowest level and are consistent with a quantum random access machine
(QRAM) model for quantum computing. In principle a formal version of quantum
pseudocode could be used in a future extension of a conventional language.

Superposition states are at the origin of many paradoxes in quantum
mechanics. By unraveling the von Neumann equation for density matrices, we
develop a superposition-free formulation of quantum mechanics. Stochastic
quantum jumps are a key feature of this approach, in blatant contrast with the
continuity of the deterministic Schr\"odinger equation. We explain how quantum
entanglement arises. Our superposition-free formulation results offers a new
perspective on quantum mechanics.

We present a method of a quantum simulation of a quantum harmonic oscillator
in a special case of the deformed commutation relation, which corresponds to
the so-called q-deformed oscillator on an IBM quantum computer. Using the
method of detection of energy levels of a spin system on a quantum computer by
probe spin evolution we obtain the energy levels of both the q-deformed quantum
harmonic and anharmonic oscillators.

The advantages of post-quantum cryptography over classical cryptography are
covered in this survey. We address several post-quantum cryptography
techniques. We conclude that the deployment of quantum-safe cryptographic
systems is anticipated to be the future of secure communication, and that the
development of post-quantum cryptography is essential to guarantee the security
of sensitive information in the post quantum era.

This paper reviews Holevo's contributions to quantum information theory
during the 20 century. At that time, he mainly studied three topics,
classical-quantum channel coding, quantum estimation with Cramero-Rao approach,
and quantum estimation with the group covariant approach. This paper addresses
these three topics.

The creation, coherent manipulation, and measurement of spins in
nanostructures open up completely new possibilities for electronics and
information processing, among them quantum computing and quantum communication.
We review our theoretical proposal for using electron spins in quantum dots as
quantum bits. We present single- and two qubit gate mechanisms in laterally as
well as vertically coupled quantum dots and discuss the possibility to couple
spins in quantum dots via superexchange. We further present the recently
proposed schemes for using a single quantum dot as spin-filter and spin
read-out/memory device.

If the situation of quantum gravity nowadays is nearly the same as that of
the quantum mechanics in it's early time of Bohr and Sommerfeld, then a first
step study of the quantum gravity from Sommerfeld's quantum condition of action
might be helpful. In this short paper the spectra of Schwarzschild black
hole(SBH) in quasi-classical approach of quantum mechanics is given. We find
the quantum of area, the quantum of entropy and the Hawking evaporation will
cease as the black hole reaches its ground state.

We construct quantum group-valued canonical connections on quantum
homogeneous spaces, including a q-deformed Dirac monopole on the quantum sphere
of Podles quantum differential coming from the 3-D calculus of Woronowicz on
$SU_q(2)$ . The construction is presented within the setting of a general
theory of quantum principal bundles with quantum group (Hopf algebra) fiber,
associated quantum vector bundles and connection one-forms. Both the base space
(spacetime) and the total space are non-commutative algebras (quantum spaces).

A new approach is suggested to quantum differential calculus on certain
quantum varieties.
  It consists in replacing quantum de Rham complexes with differentials
satisfying Leibniz rule by those which are in a sense close to Koszul complexes
from \cite{G1}. We also introduce the tangent space on a quantum hyperboloid
equipped with an action on the quantum function space and define the notions of
quantum (pseudo)metric and quantum connection (partially defined) on it. All
objects are considered from the viewpoint of flatness of quantum deformations.
A problem of constructing a flatly deformed quantum gauge theory is discussed
as well.

In order to obtain a classification of all possible quantum deformations of
the two-photon algebra $h_6$, we introduce its corresponding general Lie
bialgebra, which is a coboundary one. Two non-standard quantum deformations of
$h_6$, together with their associated quantum universal R-matrix, are
presented; each of them contains either a quantum harmonic oscillator
subalgebra or a quantum gl(2) subalgebra. One-boson representations for these
quantum two-photon algebras are derived and translated into Fock--Bargmann
realizations. In this way, a systematic study of `deformed' states of light in
quantum optics can be developed.

A general theory of quantum spinor structures on quantum spaces is presented,
within the conceptual framework of the formalism of quantum principal bundles.
Quantum analogs of all basic objects of the classical theory are constructed
and analyzed. This includes Laplace and Dirac operators, quantum versions of
Clifford and spinor bundles, a Hodge *-operator, appropriate integration
operators, and mutual relations of these objects. We also present a
self-contained formalism of braided Clifford algebras. Quantum phenomena
appearing in the theory are discussed, including a very interesting example of
the Dirac operator associated to a quantum Hopf fibration.

We compute the quantum Langevin equation (or quantum stochastic differential
equation) representing the action of a quantum heat bath at thermal equilibrium
on a simple quantum system. These equations are obtained by taking the
continuous limit of the Hamiltonian description for repeated quantum
interactions with a sequence of photons at a given density matrix state. In
particular we specialise these equations to the case of thermal equilibrium
states. In the process, new quantum noises are appearing: thermal quantum
noises. We discuss the mathematical properties of these thermal quantum noises.
We compute the Lindblad generator associated with the action of the heat bath
on the small system. We exhibit the typical Lindblad generator that provides
thermalization of a given quantum system.

We give an elementary introduction to the theory of algebraic and topological
quantum groups (in the spirit of S. L. Woronowicz). In particular, we recall
the basic facts from Hopf (*-) algebra theory, theory of compact (matrix)
quantum groups and the theory of their actions on compact quantum spaces. We
also provide the most important examples, including the classification of
quantum SL(2)-groups, their real forms and quantum spheres. We also consider
quantum SL_q(N)-groups and quantum Lorentz groups.

Experimentally, certain degrees of freedom may appear classical because their
quantum fluctuations are smaller than the experimental error associated with
measuring them. An approximation to a fully quantum theory is described in
which the self-interference of such ``quasiclassical'' variables is neglected
so that they behave classically when not coupled to other quantum variables.
Coupling to quantum variables can lead to evolution in which quasiclassical
variables do not have definite values, but values which are correlated to the
state of the quantum variables. A mathematical description implementing this
backreaction of the quantum variables on the quasiclassical variables is
critically discussed.

We define a large class of quantum sources and prove a quantum analog of the
asymptotic equipartition property. Our proof relies on using local measurements
on the quantum source to obtain an associated classical source. The classical
source provides an upper bound for the dimension of the relevant subspace of
the quantum source, via the Shannon-McMillan noiseless coding theorem. Along
the way we derive a bound for the von Neumann entropy of the quantum source in
terms of the Shannon entropy of the classical source, and we provide a
definition of ergodicity of the quantum source. Several explicit models of
quantum sources are also presented.

Classical and quantum information are very different. Together they can
perform feats that neither could achieve alone, such as quantum computing,
quantum cryptography and quantum teleportation. Some of the applications range
from helping to preventing spies from reading private communications. Among the
tools that will facilitate their implementation, we note quantum purification
and quantum error correction. Although some of these ideas are still beyond the
grasp of current technology, quantum cryptography has been implemented and the
prospects are encouraging for small-scale prototypes of quantum computation
devices before the end of the millennium.

A quantum algorithm for an oracle problem can be understood as a quantum
strategy for a player in a two-player zero-sum game in which the other player
is constrained to play classically. I formalize this correspondence and give
examples of games (and hence oracle problems) for which the quantum player can
do better than would be possible classically. The most remarkable example is
the Bernstein-Vazirani quantum search algorithm which I show creates no
entanglement at any timestep.

It is often stated that quantum mechanics only makes statistical predictions
and that a quantum state is described by the various probability distributions
associated with it. Can we describe a quantum state completely in terms of
probabilities and then use it to describe quantum dynamics? What is the origin
of the probability distribution for a maximally specified quantum state?
  Is quantum mechanics `local' or is there an essential nonlocality
(nonseparability) inherent in quantum mechanics? These questions are discussed
in this paper. The decay of an unstable quantum state and the time dependence
of a minimum uncertainty states for future times as well as past times are also
discussed.

It was recently shown (quant-ph/9909074) that parasitic random interactions
between the qubits in a quantum computer can induce quantum chaos and put into
question the operability of a quantum computer. In this work I investigate
whether already the interactions between the qubits introduced with the
intention to operate the quantum computer may lead to quantum chaos. The
analysis focuses on two well--known quantum algorithms, namely Grover's search
algorithm and the quantum Fourier transform. I show that in both cases the same
very unusual combination of signatures from chaotic and from integrable
dynamics arises.

All communication channels are at bottom quantum mechanical. Quantum
mechanics contributes both obstacles to communication in the form of noise, and
opportunities in the use of intrinsically quantum representations for
information. This paper investigates the trade-off between power and
communication rate for coupled quantum channels. By exploiting quantum
correlations such as entanglement, coupled quantum channels can communicate at
a potentially higher rate than unentangled quantum channels given the same
power. In particular, given the same overall power, M coupled, entangled
quantum channels can send M bits in the same time it takes a single channel to
send a single bit, and in the same time it takes M unentangled channels to send
$\sqrt M$ bits.

The quantum random walk is a possible approach to construct new quantum
algorithms. Several groups have investigated the quantum random walk and
experimental schemes were proposed. In this paper we present the experimental
implementation of the quantum random walk algorithm on a nuclear magnetic
resonance quantum computer. We observe that the quantum walk is in sharp
contrast to its classical counterpart. In particular, the properties of the
quantum walk strongly depends on the quantum entanglement.

Based on an idea that spatial separation of charge states can enhance quantum
coherence, we propose a scheme for quantum computation with quantum bit (qubit)
constructed from two coupled quantum dots. Quantum information is stored in
electron-hole pair state with the electron and hole locating in different dots,
which enables the qubit state being very long-lived. Universal quantum gates
involving any pair of qubits are realized by coupling the quantum dots through
cavity photon which is a hopeful candidate to transfer long-range information.
Operation analysis is carried out by estimating the gate time versus the
decoherence time.

Krentel [J. Comput. System. Sci., 36, pp.490--509] presented a framework for
an NP optimization problem that searches an optimal value among
exponentially-many outcomes of polynomial-time computations. This paper expands
his framework to a quantum optimization problem using polynomial-time quantum
computations and introduces the notion of an ``universal'' quantum optimization
problem similar to a classical ``complete'' optimization problem. We exhibit a
canonical quantum optimization problem that is universal for the class of
polynomial-time quantum optimization problems. We show in a certain relativized
world that all quantum optimization problems cannot be approximated closely by
quantum polynomial-time computations. We also study the complexity of quantum
optimization problems in connection to well-known complexity classes.

Most modern classical processors support so-called von Neumann architecture
with program and data registers. In present work is revisited similar approach
to models of quantum processors. Deterministic programmable quantum gate arrays
are considered as an example. They are also called von Neumann quantum
processors here and use conditional quantum dynamics. Such devices have some
problems with universality, but consideration of hybrid quantum processors,
i.e., models with both continuous and discrete quantum variables resolves the
problems. It is also discussed comparison of such a model of quantum processors
with more traditional approach.

A quantum digital signature protocol based on quantum mechanics is proposed
in this paper. The security of the protocol relies on the existence of quantum
one-way functions by quantum information theorem. This protocol involves a
so-called arbitrator who validates and authenticates the signed message. In
this protocol, we use privacy key algorithm to ensure the security of quantum
information on channel and use quantum public keys to sign message. To
guarantee the authenticity of the message, a family of quantum stabilizer codes
are employed. Our protocol presents a novel method to construct ultimately
secure digital system in future secure communication.

We present a protocol for quantum cryptographic network consisting of a
quantum network center and many users, in which any pair of parties with
members chosen from the whole users on request can secure a quantum key
distribution by help of the center. The protocol is based on the quantum
authentication scheme given by Barnum et al. [Proc. 43rd IEEE Symp. FOCS'02, p.
449 (2002)]. We show that exploiting the quantum authentication scheme the
center can safely make two parties share nearly perfect entangled states used
in the quantum key distribution. This implies that the quantum cryptographic
network protocol is secure against all kinds of eavesdropping.

We discuss the usefulness of quantum cloning and present examples of quantum
computation tasks for which cloning offers an advantage which cannot be matched
by any approach that does not resort to it. In these quantum computations, we
need to distribute quantum information contained in states about which we have
some partial information. To perform quantum computations, we use
state-dependent probabilistic quantum cloning procedure to distribute quantum
information in the middle of a quantum computation.

In this paper, we first define the quantum discrete logarithm problem
(QDLP)which is similar to classical discrete logarithm problem. But, this
problem cannot be solved by Shor's quantum algorithm. Based on quantum discrete
logarithm problem, we present a novel quantum secret key encryption algorithm.
The receiver constructs his quantum channel using their secret key. Then, the
sender can use the receiver's quantum channel to encrypt the message. Finally,
the receiver dencrypts the ciphertext by using secret key. In our algorithm,
the quantum system will be broken after transferring messages. But, the secret
key can still be used repeatedly in our algorithm.

Operator quantum error-correction is a technique for robustly storing quantum
information in the presence of noise. It generalizes the standard theory of
quantum error-correction, and provides a unified framework for topics such as
quantum error-correction, decoherence-free subspaces, and noiseless subsystems.
This paper develops (a) easily applied algebraic and information-theoretic
conditions which characterize when operator quantum error-correction is
feasible; (b) a representation theorem for a class of noise processes which can
be corrected using operator quantum error-correction; and (c) generalizations
of the coherent information and quantum data processing inequality to the
setting of operator quantum error-correction.

In the past few years it has been shown that universal quantum computation
can be obtained by projective measurements alone, with no need for unitary
gates. This suggests that the underlying logic of quantum computing may be an
algebra of sequences of quantum measurements rather than an algebra of products
of unitary operators. Such a Sequential Quantum Logic (SQL) was developed in
the late 70's and has more recently been applied to the consistent histories
framework of quantum mechanics as a possible route to the theory of quantum
gravity. In this letter, I give a method for deciding the truth of a
proposition in SQL with nonzero probability of success on a quantum computer.

The impossibility of perfectly copying (or cloning) an arbitrary quantum
state is one of the basic rules governing the physics of quantum systems. The
processes that perform the optimal approximate cloning have been found in many
cases. These "quantum cloning machines" are important tools for studying a wide
variety of tasks, e.g. state estimation and eavesdropping on quantum
cryptography. This paper provides a comprehensive review of quantum cloning
machines (both for discrete-dimensional and for continuous-variable quantum
systems); in addition, it presents the role of cloning in quantum cryptography,
the link between optimal cloning and light amplification via stimulated
emission, and the experimental demonstrations of optimal quantum cloning.

This article deals with theoretical developments in the subject of quantum
information and quantum computation, and includes an overview of classical
information and some relevant quantum mechanics. The discussion covers topics
in quantum communication, quantum cryptography, and quantum computation, and
concludes by considering whether a perspective in terms of quantum information
sheds new light on the conceptual problems of quantum mechanics.

This report surveys quantum error-correcting codes. As Preskill claimed, 21st
century would be the golden age of quantum error correction. Quantum channels
behave differently from classical channels, so researchers face difficulties in
developing robust quantum codes. Fortunately, the classical error control
methods have been well developed. If we can learn many lessons from classical
coding theory, we can expedite the development of quantum codes. Scientists
have discovered that quantum error correction shares many concepts with
classical counterpart. Both quantum and classical coding schemes add redundancy
to information to protect against noises. They also have similar conditions for
error detectability and correctability.

We show that the quantum wavefunction, interpreted as the probability density
of finding a single non-localized quantum particle, which evolves according to
classical laws of motion, is an intermediate description of a material quantum
particle between the quantum and classical realms. Accordingly, classical and
quantum mechanics should not be treated separately, a unified description in
terms of the Wigner distribution function being possible. Although defined on
classical phase space coordinates, the Wigner distribution function
accommodates the nonlocalization property of quantum systems, and leads to both
the Schrodinger equation for the quantum wavefunction and to the definition of
position and momentum operators.

Kolmogorov complexity is a measure of the information contained in a binary
string. We investigate here the notion of quantum Kolmogorov complexity, a
measure of the information required to describe a quantum state. We show that
for any definition of quantum Kolmogorov complexity measuring the number of
classical bits required to describe a pure quantum state, there exists a pure
n-qubit state which requires exponentially many bits of description. This is
shown by relating the classical communication complexity to the quantum
Kolmogorov complexity. Furthermore we give some examples of how quantum
Kolmogorov complexity can be applied to prove results in different fields, such
as quantum computation and thermodynamics, and we generalize it to the case of
mixed quantum states.

Entanglement is one of the pillars of quantum mechanics and quantum
information processing, and as a result the quantumness of nonentangled states
has typically been overlooked and unrecognized. We give a robust definition for
the classicality versus quantumness of a single multipartite quantum state, a
set of states, and a protocol using quantum states. We show a variety of
nonentangled (separable) states that exhibit interesting quantum properties,
and we explore the ``zoo'' of separable states; several interesting subclasses
are defined based on their diagonalizing bases, and their non-classical
behavior is investigated.

Quantum communication, and indeed quantum information in general, has changed
the way we think about quantum physics. In 1984 and 1991, the first protocol
for quantum cryptography and the first application of quantum non-locality,
respectively, attracted a diverse field of researchers in theoretical and
experimental physics, mathematics and computer science. Since then we have seen
a fundamental shift in how we understand information when it is encoded in
quantum systems. We review the current state of research and future directions
in this new field of science with special emphasis on quantum key distribution
and quantum networks.

The interferometry of single-photon pulses has been used to implement quantum
technology systems, like quantum key distribution, interaction-free measurement
and some other quantum communication protocols. In most of these
implementations, Mach-Zehnder, Michelson and Fabry-Perot interferometers are
the most used. In this work we present optical setups for interaction-free
measurement, quantum key distribution and quantum secret sharing using the
Sagnac interferometer. The proposed setups are described as well the quantum
protocols using them are explained.

Quantum protocols for bit commitment have been proposed and it is largely
accepted that unconditionally secure quantum bit commitment is not possible;
however, it can be more secure than classical bit commitment. In despite of its
usefulness, quantum bit commitment protocols have not been experimentally
implemented. The main reason is the fact that all proposed quantum bit
commitment protocols require quantum memory. In this work, we show a quantum
bit commitment protocol that does not require quantum memory and can be
implemented with present technology.

We extend the classical forbidden-interval theorems for a
stochastic-resonance noise benefit in a nonlinear system to a quantum-optical
communication model and a continuous-variable quantum key distribution model.
Each quantum forbidden-interval theorem gives a necessary and sufficient
condition that determines whether stochastic resonance occurs in quantum
communication of classical messages. The quantum theorems apply to any quantum
noise source that has finite variance or that comes from the family of
infinite-variance alpha-stable probability densities. Simulations show the
noise benefits for the basic quantum communication model and the
continuous-variable quantum key distribution model.

We argue that a fundamental (conjectured) property of memoryless quantum
channels, namely the strong superadditivity, is intimately related to the
decreasing property of the quantum relative entropy. Using the latter we first
give, for a wide class of input states, an estimation of the output entropy for
phase damping channels and some Weyl quantum channels. Then we prove, without
any input restriction, the strong superadditivity for several quantum channels,
including depolarizing quantum channels, quantum-classical channels and quantum
erasure channels.

Quantum computers are predicted to utilize quantum states to perform memory
and to process tasks far faster than those of conventional classical computers.
In this paper we show a new road towards building fault tolerance quantum
computer by tuning quantum tunneling effect of the degenerate quantum states in
topological order, instead of by braiding anyons. Using a designer Hamiltonian
- the Wen-Plaquette model as an example, we study its quantum tunneling effect
of the toric codes and show how to control the toric code to realize
topological quantum computation (TQC). In particular, we give a proposal to the
measurement of TQC. In the end the realization of the Wen-Plaquette model in
cold atoms is discussed.

Quantum networks offer a unifying set of opportunities and challenges across
exciting intellectual and technical frontiers, including for quantum
computation, communication, and metrology. The realization of quantum networks
composed of many nodes and channels requires new scientific capabilities for
the generation and characterization of quantum coherence and entanglement.
Fundamental to this endeavor are quantum interconnects that convert quantum
states from one physical system to those of another in a reversible fashion.
Such quantum connectivity for networks can be achieved by optical interactions
of single photons and atoms, thereby enabling entanglement distribution and
quantum teleportation between nodes.

Communication over a noisy quantum channel introduces errors in the
transmission that must be corrected. A fundamental bound on quantum error
correction is the quantum capacity, which quantifies the amount of quantum data
that can be protected. We show theoretically that two quantum channels, each
with a transmission capacity of zero, can have a nonzero capacity when used
together. This unveils a rich structure in the theory of quantum
communications, implying that the quantum capacity does not uniquely specify a
channel's ability for transmitting quantum information.

We use classes of Hilbert lattice equations for an alternative representation
of Hilbert lattices and Hilbert spaces of arbitrary quantum systems that might
enable a direct introduction of the states of the systems into quantum
computers. More specifically, we look for a way to feed a quantum computer with
algebraic equations of n-th order underlying an infinite dimensional Hilbert
space description of quantum systems. A number of new results on states defined
on Hilbert lattices are presented and discussed and a number of recently
obtained results in the field of Hilbert space equations are reviewed.

We present authorized quantum computation, where only a user with a
non-cloneable quantum authorization key can perform a unitary operation created
by an authenticated programmer. The security of our authorized quantum
computation is based on the quantum computational complexity problem of forging
the keys from an obfuscated quantum gate sequence. Under the assumption of the
existence of a \textit{sufficiently-random gate shuffling algorithm}, the
problem is shown to be in the NQP (Non-deterministic Quantum Polynomial)-hard
class by reducing it to a NQP-Complete problem, the exact non-identity check
problem. Therefore, our authorized quantum computation can be computationally
secure against attacks using quantum computers.

This article begins with a review of quantum measure spaces. Quantum forms
and indefinite inner-product spaces are then discussed. The main part of the
paper introduces a quantum integral and derives some of its properties. The
quantum integral's form for simple functions is characterized and it is shown
that the quantum integral generalizes the Lebesgue integral. A bounded,
monotone convergence theorem for quantum integrals is obtained and it is shown
that a Radon-Nikodym type theorem does not hold for quantum measures. As an
example, a quantum-Lebesgue integral on the real line is considered.

A new algorithm for minimization of quantum cost of quantum circuits has been
designed. The quantum cost of different quantum circuits of particular interest
(eg. circuits for EPR, quantum teleportation, shor code and different quantum
arithmetic operations) are computed by using the proposed algorithm. The
quantum costs obtained using the proposed algorithm is compared with the
existing results and it is found that the algorithm has produced minimum
quantum cost in all cases.

We study the quantum correlations in a 2D system that possesses a topological
quantum phase transition. The quantumness of two-body correlations is measured
by quantum discord. We calculate both the correlation of two local spins and
that of an arbitrary spin with the rest of the lattice. It is notable that
local spins are classically correlated, while the quantum correlation is hidden
in the global lattice. This is different from other systems which are not
topologically orderd. Moreover, the mutual information and global quantum
discord show critical behavior in the topological quantum phase transition.

We utilize quantum discord to charecterize the correlation present in
Buzek-Hillery quantum copying machine \cite{bh} (not necessarily universal
quantum cloning machine). In other words we quantify the correlation present
beetween the original and the replicated copy of the quantum state obtained at
the outport port, Interestingly, we find some domain of the machine parameter,
for which the quantum disord is non negative even in the mere absence of
entanglement. These non zero values of the quantum discord is a strong
signature for the presence of non classical correlations. This is one step
forward evidence in the support of the fact that quantum discord and
entanglement are not synonymous.

Quantum walks have emerged as an interesting candidate for the implementation
of quantum information processing protocols. Optical implementations of quantum
walks have been demonstrated by various groups and some have received
high-profile coverage. It is often claimed that quantum walks provide an avenue
towards universal quantum computation. In this comment I wish to dispel some
misconceptions surrounding the prospects of quantum walks as a route towards
universal optical quantum computation.

Quantum Annealing, or Quantum Stochastic Optimization, is a classical
randomized algorithm which provides good heuristics for the solution of hard
optimization problems. The algorithm, suggested by the behaviour of quantum
systems, is an example of proficuous cross contamination between classical and
quantum computer science. In this survey paper we illustrate how hard
combinatorial problems are tackled by quantum computation and present some
examples of the heuristics provided by Quantum Annealing. We also present
preliminary results about the application of quantum dissipation (as an
alternative to Imaginary Time Evolution) to the task of driving a quantum
system toward its state of lowest energy.

Present-day quantum field theory can be regularized by a decomposition into
quantum simplices. This replaces the infinite-dimensional Hilbert space by a
high-dimensional spinor space and singular canonical Lie groups by regular spin
groups. It radically changes the uncertainty principle for small distances.
Gaugeons, including the gravitational, are represented as bound fermion-pairs,
and space-time curvature as a singular organized limit of quantum
non-commutativity.
  Keywords: Quantum logic, quantum set theory, quantum gravity, quantum
topology, simplicial quantization.

A "dispersive quantum system" is a quantum system which is both isolated and
non-time reversal invariant. This article presents precise definitions for
those concepts and also a characterization of dispersive quantum systems within
the class of completely positive Markovian quantum systems in finite dimension
(through a homogeneous linear equation for the non-Hamiltonian part of the
system's Liouvillian). To set the framework, the basic features of quantum
mechanics are reviewed focusing on time evolution and also on the theory of
completely positive Markovian quantum systems, including Kossakowski-Lindblad's
standard form for Liouvillians. After those general considerations, I present a
simple example of dispersive two-level quantum system and apply that to
describe neutrino oscillation.

We study quantum correlations in an isotropic Ising ring under the effects of
a transverse magnetic field. After characterizing the behavior of two-spin
quantum correlations, we extend our analysis to global properties of the ring,
using a figure of merit for quantum correlations that shows enough sensitivity
to reveal the drastic changes in the properties of the system at criticality.
This opens up the possibility to relate statistical properties of quantum
many-body systems to suitably tailored measures of quantum correlations that
capture features going far beyond standard quantum entanglement.

A quantum expander is a unital quantum channel that is rapidly mixing, has
only a few Kraus operators, and can be implemented efficiently on a quantum
computer. We consider the problem of estimating the mixing time (i.e., the
spectral gap) of a quantum expander. We show that this problem is
co-QMA-complete. This has applications to testing randomized constructions of
quantum expanders, and studying thermalization of open quantum systems.

The quantum discord is used as measure of quantum correlations for two
families of multipartite coherent states. The first family interpolates between
generalized GHZ states and generalized Werner states. The second one is an
interpolation between generalized GHZ and the ground state of the multipartite
quantum system. Two inequivalent ways to split the system in a pair of qubits
are introduced. The explicit expressions of quantum quantum discord in
multipartite coherent states are derived. Its evaluation uses the Koashi-Winter
relation in optimizing the conditional entropy. The temporal evolution of
quantum correlations (quantum discord and entanglement) is also discussed.

We describe the use of quantum process calculus to describe and analyze
quantum communication protocols, following the successful field of formal
methods from classical computer science. We have extended the quantum process
calculus to describe d-dimensional quantum systems, which has not been done
before. We summarise the necessary theory in the generalisation of quantum
gates and Bell states and use the theory to apply the quantum process calculus
CQP to quantum protocols, namely qudit teleportation and superdense coding.

Quantum teleportation is a powerful protocol with applications in several
schemes of quantum communication, quantum cryptography and quantum computing.
The present work shows the required conditions for a two-qubit quantum gate to
be deterministically and probabilistically teleported by a quantum gate
teleportation scheme using different basis of measurement. Additionally, we
present examples of teleportation of two-qubit gates that do not belong to
Clifford group as well the limitations of the quantum gate teleportation scheme
employing a four-qubit state with genuine four-way entanglement.

In the thesis, we use a recently developed tight characterisation of quantum
query complexity, the adversary bound, to develop new quantum algorithms and
lower bounds. Our results are as follows:
  * We develop a new technique for the construction of quantum algorithms:
learning graphs.
  * We use learning graphs to improve quantum query complexity of the triangle
detection and the $k$-distinctness problems.
  * We prove tight lower bounds for the $k$-sum and the triangle sum problems.
  * We construct quantum algorithms for some subgraph-finding problems that are
optimal in terms of query, time and space complexities.
  * We develop a generalisation of quantum walks that connects electrical
properties of a graph and its quantum hitting time. We use it to construct a
time-efficient quantum algorithm for 3-distinctness.

A simple relation is established for the evolution equation of quantum
information processing protocols such as quantum teleportation, remote state
preparation, Bell-inequality violation and particularly dynamics of the
geometric quantum correlation measures. This relation shows that when the
system traverses the local quantum channel, various figures of merit of the
quantum correlations for different protocols demonstrate a factorization decay
behavior for dynamics. We identified the family of quantum states for different
kinds of quantum channels under the action of which the relation holds. This
relation simplifies the assessment of many quantum tasks.

Recurrence in the classical random walk is well known and described by the
P\'olya number. For quantum walks, recurrence is similarly understood in terms
of the probability of a localized quantum walker to return to its origin. Under
certain circumstances the quantum walker may also return to an arbitrary
initial quantum state in a finite number of steps. Quantum state revivals in
quantum walks on circles using coin operators which are constant in time and
uniform across the path have been described before but only incompletely. In
this paper we find the general conditions for which full-quantum state revival
will occur.

Enhancing the quantum correlations in realistic quantum systems interacting
with the environment of finite temperature is an important subject in quantum
information processing. In this paper, we use weak measurement and measurement
reversal to enhance the quantum correlations in a quantum system consisting of
two particles. The transitions of the quantum correlations measured by the
local quantum uncertainty of qubit-qubit and qutrit-qutrit quantum systems
under generalized amplitude damping channels are investigated. We show that,
after the weak measurement and measurement reversal, the joint system shows
more robustness against decoherence.

Discrete time quantum walks are known to be universal for quantum
computation. This has been proven by showing that they can simulate a universal
quantum gate set. In this paper, we examine computation by quantum walks in
terms of language acceptance, and present two ways in which discrete time
quantum walks can accept some languages with certainty. These walks can take
quantum as well as classical inputs, and we show that when the input is
quantum, the walks can also be interpreted as performing the task of quantum
state discrimination.

The notion of generalized quantum monoids is introduced. It is proved that
the quantum coordinate ring of the monoid can be lifted to a quantum
hyper-algebra, in which the quantum determinant and quantum Pfaffian are sent
to the quantum hyperdeterminant and quantum hyper-Pfaffian respectively. The
quantum hyperdeterminant in even dimension is shown to be a $q$-analog of
Cayley's first hyperdeterminant.

This is a study of orbifold-quotients of quantum groups (quantum orbifolds
$\Theta \rightrightarrows G_q$). These structures have been studied extensively
in the case of the quantum $SU_2$ group. I will introduce a generalized
mechanism which allows one to construct quantum orbifolds from any compact
simple and simply connected quantum group. Associated with a quantum orbifold
there is an invariant subalgebra as well as a crossed product algebra. For each
spin quantum orbifold, there is a unitary equivalence class of Dirac spectral
triples over the invariant subalgebra, and for each effective spin quantum
orbifold associated with a finite group action, there is a unitary equivalence
class of Dirac spectral triples over the crossed product algebra. As an
application I will study a Hopf-equivariant Fredholm index problem.

Quantum discord expresses a fundamental non-classicality of correlations more
general than quantum entanglement. We combine the no-local-broadcasting
theorem, semidefinite-programming characterizations of quantum fidelity and
quantum separability, and a recent breakthrough result of Fawzi and Renner
about quantum Markov chains to provide a hierarchy of computationally efficient
lower bounds to quantum discord. Such a hierarchy converges to the surprisal of
measurement recoverability introduced by Seshadreesan and Wilde, and provides a
faithful lower bound to quantum discord already at the lowest non-trivial
level. Furthermore, the latter constitutes by itself a valid discord-like
measure of the quantumness of correlations.

In the absence of any efficient classical schemes for verifying a universal
quantum computer, the importance of limiting the required quantum resources for
this task has been highlighted recently. Currently, most of efficient quantum
verification protocols are based on cryptographic techniques where an almost
classical verifier executes her desired encrypted quantum computation remotely
on an untrusted quantum prover. In this work we present a new protocol for
quantum verification by incorporating existing techniques in a non-standard
composition to reduce the required quantum communications between the verifier
and the prover.

Quantum electrodynamics under conditions of distinguishability of interacting
matter entities, and of controlled actions and back-actions between them, is
considered. Such "mesoscopic quantum electrodynamics" is shown to share its
dynamical structure with the classical stochastic electrodynamics. In formal
terms, we demonstrate that all general relations of the mesoscopic quantum
electrodynamics may be recast in a form lacking Planck's constant. Mesoscopic
quantum electrodynamics is therefore subject to "doing quantum electrodynamics
while thinking classically," allowing one to substitute essentally classical
considerations for quantum ones without any loss in generality. Implications of
these results for the quantum measurement theory are discussed.

Quantum ensembles form easily accessible architectures for studying various
phenomena in quantum physics, quantum information science, and spectroscopy.
Here we review some recent protocols for measurements in quantum ensembles by
utilizing ancillary systems. We also illustrate these protocols experimentally
via nuclear magnetic resonance techniques. In particular, we shall review
noninvasive measurements, extracting expectation values of various operators,
characterizations of quantum states, and quantum processes, and finally quantum
noise engineering.

Cosmic inflation is commonly assumed to be driven by quantum fields. Quantum
mechanics predicts phenomena such as quantum fluctuations and tunneling of the
field. Here we show an example of a quantum interference effect which goes
beyond the semi-classical treatment and which may be of relevance in the early
universe. We study the quantum coherent dynamics for a tilted, periodic
potential, which results in genuine quantum oscillations of the inflaton field,
analogous to Bloch oscillations in condensed matter and atomic systems. Our
results show that quantum interference phenomena may be of relevance in
cosmology.

We describe basic motivations behind quantum or noncommutative probability,
introduce quantum L\'evy processes on compact quantum groups, and discuss
several aspects of the study of the latter in the example of quantum
permutation groups. The first half of this paper is a survey on quantum
probability, compact quantum groups, and L\'evy processes on compact quantum
groups. In the second half the theory is applied to quantum permutations
groups. Explicit examples are constructed and certain classes of such L\'evy
processes are classified.

The notion of an open quantum subgroup of a locally compact quantum group is
introduced and given several equivalent characterizations in terms of
group-like projections, inclusions of quantum group C*-algebras and properties
of respective quantum homogenous spaces. Open quantum subgroups are shown to be
closed in the sense of Vaes and normal open quantum subgroups are proved to be
in 1-1 correspondence with normal compact quantum subgroups of the dual quantum
group.

Quantum computers are designed to outperform standard computers by running
quantum algorithms. Areas in which quantum algorithms can be applied include
cryptography, search and optimisation, simulation of quantum systems, and
solving large systems of linear equations. Here we briefly survey some known
quantum algorithms, with an emphasis on a broad overview of their applications
rather than their technical details. We include a discussion of recent
developments and near-term applications of quantum algorithms.

Quantum information processing with hybrid protocols making use of discrete-
and continuous-variable currently attracts of great interest because of its
promising applications in scalable quantum computer and distant quantum
network. By inducing a giant cross-Kerr nonlinearity between two cavities, we
propose a general protocol for hybrid quantum gate and quantum entanglement
with high fidelity between a stationary, discrete photonic qubit and a flying
photonic state. Interestingly, our protocol can be used to conduct a
controlled-Z quantum gate between a stationary microwave photon stored in a
slowly-decaying microwave cavity and a flying optical photon, and therefore
enable to build quantum network for distant superconducting quantum circuits.

The security of quantum key distribution protocols hinges upon features of
physical systems that are uniquely quantum in nature. We explore the role of
quantumness as qualified by quantum contextuality, in quantum key distribution
schemes. We present a new quantum key distribution protocol whose security
depends uponthe KCBS inequality and contextuality monogamy. We explicitly
calculate the key rate, error rate introduced between Alice-Bob communication
due to the presence of Eve, and the information-gain by Eve. This protocol
provides a new framework for quantum key distribution which has conceptual and
practical advantages over other quantum protocols.

Quantum encryption is a well studied problem for both classical and quantum
information. However, little is known about quantum encryption schemes which
enable the user, under different keys, to learn different functions of the
plaintext, given the ciphertext. In this paper, we give a novel one-bit
secret-key quantum encryption scheme, a classical extension of which allows
different key holders to learn different length subsequences of the plaintext
from the ciphertext. We prove our quantum-classical scheme secure under the
notions of quantum semantic security, quantum entropic indistinguishability,
and recent security definitions from the field of functional encryption.

We study an extension of Bernstein's theorem to the setting of quantum
groups. For a d-tuple of free, identically distributed random variables we
consider a problem of preservation of freeness under the action of a quantum
subset of the free orthogonal quantum group. For a subset not contained in the
hyperoctahedral quantum group we prove that preservation of freeness
characterizes Wigner's semicircle law. We show that freeness is always
preserved if the quantum subset is contained in the hyperoctahedral quantum
group. We provide examples of quantum subsets which show that our result is an
extension of results known in the literature.

We demonstrate the implementation of quantum cheque, proposed by Roy Moulick
and Panigrahi [Quantum Inf. Process (2016) 15: 2475], using the five-qubit IBM
quantum computer. Appropriate single qubit, CNOT and Fredkin gates have been
implemented for the realization of the quantum cheque transaction in a quantum
networked banking system. Quantum state tomography reveals the accuracy of the
implementation with comparable results from the theoretical and experimental
density matrices.

We present a quantum algorithm solving the greatest common divisor (GCD)
problem. This quantum algorithm possesses similar computational complexity with
classical algorithms, such as the well-known Euclidean algorithm for GCD. This
algorithm is an application of the quantum algorithms for the hidden subgroup
problems, the same as Shor factoring algorithm. Explicit quantum circuits
realized by quantum gates for this quantum algorithm are provided. We also give
a computer simulation of this quantum algorithm and present the expected
outcomes for the corresponding quantum circuit.

Quantum key distribution is one of the most fundamental cryptographic
protocols. Quantum walks are important primitives for computing. In this paper
we take advantage of the properties of quantum walks to design new secure
quantum key distribution schemes. In particular, we introduce a secure quantum
key-distribution protocol equipped with verification procedures against full
man-in-the-middle attacks. Furthermore, we present a one-way protocol and prove
its security. Finally, we propose a semi-quantum variation and prove its
robustness against eavesdropping.

Quantum information processing exploits the quantum nature of information. It
offers fundamentally new solutions in the field of computer science and extends
the possibilities to a level that cannot be imagined in classical communication
systems. For quantum communication channels, many new capacity definitions were
developed in comparison to classical counterparts. A quantum channel can be
used to realize classical information transmission or to deliver quantum
information, such as quantum entanglement. Here we review the properties of the
quantum communication channel, the various capacity measures and the
fundamental differences between the classical and quantum channels.

We show that quantum Reed-Solomon codes constructed from classical
Reed-Solomon codes can approach the capacity on the quantum erasure channel of
$d$-level systems for large dimension $d$. We study the performance of one-way
quantum repeaters with these codes and obtain a significant improvement in key
generation rate compared to previously investigated encoding schemes with
quantum parity codes and quantum polynomial codes. We also compare the three
generation of quantum repeaters using quantum Reed-Solomon codes and identify
parameter regimes where each generation performs the best.

We propose a classical-quantum hybrid algorithm for machine learning on
near-term quantum processors, which we call quantum circuit learning. A quantum
circuit driven by our framework learns a given task by tuning parameters
implemented on it. The iterative optimization of the parameters allows us to
circumvent the high-depth circuit. Theoretical investigation shows that a
quantum circuit can approximate nonlinear functions, which is further confirmed
by numerical simulations. Hybridizing a low-depth quantum circuit and a
classical computer for machine learning, the proposed framework paves the way
toward applications of near-term quantum devices for quantum machine learning.

The quantification of the quantumness of a quantum ensemble has theoretical
and practical significance in quantum information theory. We propose herein a
class of measures of the quantumness of quantum ensembles using the unitary
similarity invariant norms of the commutators of the constituent density
operators of an ensemble. Rigorous proof shows that they share desirable
properties for a measure of quantumness, such as positivity, unitary
invariance, concavity under probabilistic union, convexity under state
decomposition, decreasing under coarse graining, and increasing under fine
graining. Several specific examples illustrate the applications of these
measures of quantumness in studying quantum information.

We investigate the quantum phase transitions for the $XXZ$ spin-1/2 chains
via the quantum correlations between the nearest and next to nearest neighbor
spins characterized by negativity, information deficit, trace distance discord
and local quantum uncertainty. It is shown that all these correlations exhibit
the quantum phase transitions at $\Delta=-1$. However, only information deficit
and local quantum uncertainty can demonstrate quantum phase transitions at
$\Delta=1$. The analytical and numerical behaviors of the quantum correlations
for the $XXZ$ system are presented. We also consider quantum correlations in
the Hartree-Fock ground state of the Lipkin-Meshkov-Glick (LMG) model.

Quantum field theory (QFT) in classical spacetime has revealed interesting
and puzzling aspects about gravitational systems, in particular black hole
thermodynamics and its information processing. Although quantum gravitational
effects may be relevant for a better understanding of these topics, a commonly
accepted framework for studying QFT with quantum gravitational effects is
missing. We present a theory for studying quantum fields in the presence of
quantum indefinite causal structure. This theory incorporates quantum
properties of spacetime causal structure in a model independent way, and
exposes universal features of quantum spacetime which are independent of the
details about its microscopic degrees of freedom (strings, loops, causal
sets...).

Notes from the lectures by the author at the 7th Jerusalem Winter School 1990
on Quantum Cosmology and Baby Universes. The lectures covered quantum mechanics
for closed systems like the universe, generalized quantum mechanics, time in
quantum mechanics, the quantum mechanics spacetime, and practical quantum
cosmology. References have not been updated.

The class of two-qubit Bell-diagonal states has been the workhorse for
developing understanding about the geometry, dynamics, and applications of
quantum resources. In this article, we present a quantum circuit for preparing
Bell-diagonal states on a quantum computer in a tunable way. We implement this
quantum circuit using the IBM Q 5 Yorktown quantum computer and, as an
application example, we measure the non-local, steering, entanglement, and
discord quantum correlations and non-local quantum coherence of Werner states.

The field of quantum algorithms aims to find ways to speed up the solution of
computational problems by using a quantum computer. A key milestone in this
field will be when a universal quantum computer performs a computational task
that is beyond the capability of any classical computer, an event known as
quantum supremacy. This would be easier to achieve experimentally than
full-scale quantum computing, but involves new theoretical challenges. Here we
present the leading proposals to achieve quantum supremacy, and discuss how we
can reliably compare the power of a classical computer to the power of a
quantum computer.

In this work, a constant time Quantum searching algorithm over a datasets is
proposed and subsequently the algorithm is executed in real chip quantum
computer developed by IBM Quantum experience (IBMQ). QISKit, the software
platform developed by IBM is used for this algorithm implementation. Quantum
interference, Quantum superposition and {\pi} phase shift of quantum state
applied for this constant time search algorithm. The proposed quantum algorithm
is executed in QISKit SDK local backend 'local_qasm_simulator', real chip
'ibmq_16_melbourne' and 'ibmqx4' IBMQ. Result also suggest that real chip
ibmq_16_melbourne is more quantum error or noise prone than ibmqx4.

We prove the difference between the minimal entanglement costs in quantum
state merging under one-way and two-way communication in a one-shot scenario,
whereas they have been known to coincide asymptotically. While the minimal
entanglement cost in state merging under one-way communication is
conventionally interpreted to characterize partial quantum information
conditioned by quantum side information, we introduce a notion of spread
quantum information evaluated by the corresponding cost under two-way
communication. Spread quantum information quantitatively characterizes how
nonlocally one-shot quantum information is spread, and it cannot be interpreted
as partial quantum information.

Quantum simulation provides quantum systems under study with analogous
controllable quantum systems and has wide applications from condensed-matter
physics to high energy physics and to cosmology. The quantum system of a
homogeneous and isotropic field in the Friedmann-Robertson-Walker universe can
be simulated by a charge in an electrically modulated ion trap. The quantum
states of these time-dependent oscillators are constructed by quantum
invariants. Further, we propose simulation of quantum
Friedmann-Robertson-Walker universe with a minimal massive scalar field by a
charged scalar field in a homogeneous, time-dependent, magnetic field in
quantum electrodynamics and investigate the Cauchy problem of how the wave
functions evolve.

Recently the use of Noisy Intermediate Scale Quantum (NISQ) devices for
machine learning tasks has been proposed. The propositions often perform poorly
due to various restrictions. However, the quantum devices should perform well
in sampling tasks. Thus, we recall theory of sampling-based approach to machine
learning and propose a quantum sampling based classifier. Namely, we use
randomized feature map approach. We propose a method of quantum sampling based
on random quantum circuits with parametrized rotations distribution. We obtain
simple to use method with intuitive hyper-parameters that performs at least
equally well as top out-of-the-box classical methods. In short we obtain a
competitive quantum classifier with crucial component being quantum sampling --
a promising task for quantum supremacy.

Quantum state transfer between different sites is a significant problem for
quantum networks and quantum computers. By selecting quantum walks with two
coins as the basic model and two coin spaces as the communication carriers, we
successfully implement quantum state transfer on various graphs (EPL,
\textbf{124} (2018) 60009) \cite{Shang_2019}. Here, we demonstrate the
experimental implementation of this scheme using IBM quantum experience
platform. In particular, we show the transfer of Bell state, GHZ state and W
state on complete graph on the quantum device. Also, we observe that our
protocol has high fidelity by preforming quantum state tomography.

In this paper it is proposed the dynamical quantum Zeno Effect in quantum
decision theory. The measurement postulate is not an essential ingredient for
the explanation of the quantum Zeno effect, a dynamical account is given in
quantum physics. In this account, the entanglement between the system of
interest and the apparatus inhibit the quantum transition. The collapse
postulate is not considered. It is show in this paper that the belief-action
entanglement model provides a mathematical framework for the dynamical quantum
Zeno effect in quantum decision theory. It is also shown that, in this context
the dynamical account implies that opinion change process can be inhibited by
frequent evaluations of intentions to act.

We present the first quantum anonymous notification (QAN) protocol that
introduces anonymity and paves the way for anonymous secure quantum
communication in quantum networks. QAN protocol has applications ranging from
multiparty quantum computation to quantum internet. We utilize the QAN protocol
to propose an anonymous quantum private comparison protocol in an $n$-node
quantum network. This protocol can compare private information of any $2 \leq k
\leq n$ parties with the help of the remaining $n-k$ parties and a semi-honest
third party. These protocols feature a traceless property, i.e., encoding
operations cannot be traced back to their originating sources. Security
analysis shows that this protocol is robust against external adversaries and
malicious participants.

In this article we present an ongoing effort to formalise quantum algorithms
and results in quantum information theory using the proof assistant
Isabelle/HOL. Formal methods being critical for the safety and security of
algorithms and protocols, we foresee their widespread use for quantum computing
in the future. We have developed a large library for quantum computing in
Isabelle based on a matrix representation for quantum circuits, successfully
formalising the no-cloning theorem, quantum teleportation, Deutsch's algorithm,
the Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm and the quantum Prisoner's Dilemma. We discuss the
design choices made and report on an outcome of our work in the field of
quantum game theory.

We want in this article to show the usefulness of Quantum Turing Machine
(QTM) in a high-level didactic context as well as in theoretical studies. We
use QTM to show its equivalence with quantum circuit model for Deutsch and
Deutsch-Jozsa algorithms. Further we introduce a strategy of translation from
Quantum Circuit to Quantum Turing models by these examples. Moreover we
illustrate some features of Quantum Computing such as superposition from a QTM
point of view and starting with few simple examples very known in Quantum
Circuit form.

The procedure of tossing quantum coins and dice is described. This case is an
important example of a quantum procedure because it presents a typical
framework employed in quantum information processing and quantum computing. The
emphasis is on the clarification of the difference between quantum and
classical conditional probabilities. These probabilities are designed for
characterizing different systems, either quantum or classical, and they,
generally, cannot be reduced to each other. Thus the L\"{u}ders probability
cannot be treated as a generalization of the classical conditional probability.
The analogies between quantum theory of measurements and quantum decision
theory are elucidated.

We report on a time scaling technique to enhance the performances of quantum
protocols in non-Hermitian systems. The considered time scaling involves no
extra-couplings and yields a significant enhancement of the quantum fidelity
for a comparable amount of resources. We discuss the application of this
technique to quantum state transfers in 2 and 3-level open quantum systems. We
derive the quantum speed limit in a system governed by a non-Hermitian
Hamiltonian. Interestingly, we show that, with an appropriate driving, the
time-scaling technique preserves the optimality of the quantum speed with
respect to the quantum speed limit while reducing significantly the damping of
the quantum state norm.

Quantum computing is usually associated with discrete quantum states and
physical quantities possessing discrete eigenvalue spectrum. However, quantum
computing in general is any computation accomplished by the exploitation of
quantum properties of physical quantities, discrete or otherwise. It has been
shown that physical quantities with continuous eigenvalue spectrum can be used
for quantum computing as well. Currently, continuous variable quantum computing
is a rapidly developing field both theoretically and experimentally. In this
pedagogical introduction we present the basic theoretical concepts behind it
and the tools for algorithm development. The paper targets readers with
discrete quantum computing background, who are new to continuous variable
quantum computing.

Quantum deep learning is a research field for the use of quantum computing
techniques for training deep neural networks. The research topics and
directions of deep learning and quantum computing have been separated for long
time, however by discovering that quantum circuits can act like artificial
neural networks, quantum deep learning research is widely adopted. This paper
explains the backgrounds and basic principles of quantum deep learning and also
introduces major achievements. After that, this paper discusses the challenges
of quantum deep learning research in multiple perspectives. Lastly, this paper
presents various future research directions and application fields of quantum
deep learning.

Recently, Lloyd and Montangero have made a brief research proposal on
universal quantum computation in integrable systems. The main idea is to encode
qubits into quantum action variables and build up quantum gates by the method
of resonant control. We study this proposal to argue quantum computation using
action variables as fault-tolerant quantum computation, whose fault-tolerance
is guaranteed by the quantum KAM theorem. Besides, we view the Birkhoff norm
form as a mathematical framework of the extended harmonic oscillator quantum
computation.

The report presents a general approach for estimating quantum information
technologies by means of fuzzy quantum measurements. The developed methods are
used for precision reconstruction of quantum states under conditions of
significant influence of decoherence and quantum noise. Monitoring of the
amount of information about quantum states and their parameters, including the
loss of information caused by the effect of quantum noise, is considered.
Examples of the developed approach as applied to readout errors and phase
relaxation are presented.

Digital quantum simulation is a promising application of quantum computers,
where quantum dynamics is simulated by using quantum gate operations. Many
techniques for decomposing a time-evolution operator of quantum dynamics into
simulatable quantum gate operations have been proposed, while these methods
cause some errors. To evaluate these errors, we derive a lower bound for
overlap between true dynamics and digital simulated dynamics at the final time.
Our result enables us to guarantee how obtained digital simulated dynamics is
close to unknown true dynamics. We also extend our formalism to error
evaluation of digital quantum simulation on noisy quantum computers.

While recent breakthroughs in quantum computing promise the nascence of the
quantum information age, quantum states remain delicate to control. Moreover,
the required energy budget for large scale quantum applications has only
sparely been considered. Addressing either of these issues necessitates a
careful study of the most energetically efficient implementation of elementary
quantum operations. In the present analysis, we show that this optimal control
problem can be solved within the powerful framework of quantum speed limits. To
this end, we derive state-independent lower bounds on the energetic cost, from
which we find the universally optimal implementation of unitary quantum gates,
for both single and $N$-qubit operations.

Despite all the progress in quantum technologies over the last decade, there
is still a dearth of practical applications for quantum computers with a small
number of noisy qubits. The effort to show quantum supremacy has been largely
focused on demonstrating computations that cannot be accomplished on a
classical computer at all, a difficult and controversial target. Quantum
advantage (a speedup over classical computers) is a more practical milestone
for today's modest quantum processors. In this work, we proposed a scheme for
quantum-computer compatible proof of work (cryptographic mechanism used in
Bitcoin mining) and verified it on a 4-qubit superconducting quantum node.

We optimise a translationally invariant, sequential quantum circuit on a
superconducting quantum device to simulate the groundstate of the quantum Ising
model through its quantum critical point. We further demonstrate how the
dynamical quantum critical point found in quenches of this model across its
quantum critical point can be simulated. Our approach avoids finite-size
scaling effects by using sequential quantum circuits inspired by infinite
matrix product states. We provide efficient circuits and a variety of error
mitigation strategies to implement, optimise and time-evolve these states.

We define and study quantum permutations of infinite sets. This leads to
discrete quantum groups which can be viewed as infinite variants of the quantum
permutation groups introduced by Wang. More precisely, the resulting quantum
groups encode universal quantum symmetries of the underlying sets among all
discrete quantum groups. We also discuss quantum automorphisms of infinite
graphs, including some examples and open problems regarding both the existence
and non-existence of quantum symmetries in this setting.

We investigate the quantum optical response of antireflection temporal
coatings, i.e., matching temporal layers that suppress the generation of
backward waves in temporal boundaries. Our results reveal that quantum
antireflection temporal coatings are characterized for inducing a frequency
shift of the quantum state, while preserving all photon statistics intact.
Thus, they might find application for fast quantum frequency shifting in
photonic quantum networks. The quantum theory also provides additional insight
on their classical mode of operation, clarifying which quantities are preserved
through the temporal boundary. Finally, we show that quantum antireflection
temporal coatings allow for fast temporal switching without the amplification
of thermal fields.

Semi-quantum cryptography involves at least one user who is semi-quantum or
"classical" in nature. Such a user can only interact with the quantum channel
in a very restricted way. Many semi-quantum key distribution protocols have
been developed, some with rigorous proofs of security. Here we show for the
first time, to our knowledge, that quantum random number generation is possible
in the semi-quantum setting. We also develop a rigorous proof of security,
deriving a bound on the random bit generation rate of the protocol as a
function of noise in the channel. Our protocol and proof may be broadly
applicable to other quantum and semi-quantum cryptographic scenarios where
users are limited in their capabilities.

Quantum computing has gained attention in recent years due to the significant
progress in quantum computing technology. Today many companies like IBM, Google
and Microsoft have developed quantum computers and simulators for research and
commercial use. The development of quantum techniques and algorithms is
essential to exploit the full power of quantum computers. In this paper we
propose a simple visual technique (we call Q-Map) for quantum realisation of
classical Boolean logic circuits. The proposed method utilises concepts from
Boolean algebra to produce a quantum circuit with minimal number of quantum
gates.

We study the energy extraction from and charging to a finite-dimensional
quantum system by general quantum operations. We prove that the changes in
energy induced by unital quantum operations are limited by the
ergotropy/charging bound for unitary quantum operations. This implies that, in
order to break the ergotropy/charging bound for unitary quantum operations, one
needs to perform a quantum operation with feedback control. We also show that
the ergotropy/charging bound for unital quantum operations, applied to initial
thermal equilibrium states, is tighter than the inequality representing the
standard second law of thermodynamics without feedback control.

At the intersection of machine learning and quantum computing, Quantum
Machine Learning (QML) has the potential of accelerating data analysis,
especially for quantum data, with applications for quantum materials,
biochemistry, and high-energy physics. Nevertheless, challenges remain
regarding the trainability of QML models. Here we review current methods and
applications for QML. We highlight differences between quantum and classical
machine learning, with a focus on quantum neural networks and quantum deep
learning. Finally, we discuss opportunities for quantum advantage with QML.

Mixed quantum-classical dynamics is a set of methods often used to understand
systems too complex to treat fully quantum mechanically. Many techniques exist
for full quantum mechanical evolution on quantum computers, but mixed
quantum-classical dynamics are less explored. We present a modular algorithm
for general mixed quantum-classical dynamics where the quantum subsystem is
coupled with the classical subsystem. We test it on a modified Shin-Metiu model
in the first quantization through Ehrenfest propagation. We find that the
Time-Dependent Variational Time Propagation algorithm performs well for
short-time evolutions and retains qualitative results for longer-time
evolutions.

The field of quantum communications promises the faithful distribution of
quantum information, quantum entanglement, and absolutely secret keys. However,
the highest rates of these tasks are fundamentally limited by the transmission
distances. Quantum repeaters are necessary to overcome the repeaterless bound
which sets the fundamental rate-distance limit of any repeaterless quantum
communication protocol. The ultimate end-to-end rates of quantum repeater
networks are known to be achievable by an optimal entanglement-distillation
protocol followed by quantum teleportation. In this thesis, we give physical
repeater designs for this achievability. We also propose practical repeater
designs with near-term potential for real-world practical applications.

Quantum metrology based on quantum entanglement and quantum coherence
improves the accuracy of measurement. In this paper, we briefly review the
schemes of quantum metrology in various complex systems, including
non-Markovian noise, correlated noise, quantum critical system. On the other
hand, the booming development of quantum information allows us to utilize
quantum simulation experiments to test the feasibility of various theoretical
schemes and demonstrate the rich physical phenomena in complex systems, such as
bound states in one-dimensional coupled cavity arrays, single-photon switches
and routers.

The study of quantum channels is the most fundamental theoretical problem in
quantum information and quantum communication theory. The link product theory
of quantum channels is an important tool for studying quantum networks. In this
paper, we establish the Stinespring dilation theorem of the link product of
quantum channels in two different ways, discuss the discrimination of quantum
channels and show that the distinguishability can be improved by self-linking
each quantum channel n times as n grows. We also find that the maximum value of
Uhlmann's theorem can be achieved for diagonal channels.

People are witnessing quantum computing revolutions nowadays. Progress in the
number of qubits, coherence times and gate fidelities are happening. Although
quantum error correction era has not arrived, the research and development of
quantum computing have inspired insights and breakthroughs in quantum
technologies, both in theories and in experiments. In this review, we introduce
the basic principles of quantum computing and the multilayer architecture for a
quantum computer. There are different experimental platforms for implementing
quantum computing. In this review, based on a mature experimental platform, the
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) platform, we introduce the basic steps to
experimentally implement quantum computing, as well as common challenges and
techniques.

We introduce a novel scheme of quantum recursive programming, in which large
unitary transformations, i.e. quantum gates, can be recursively defined using
quantum case statements, which are quantum counterparts of conditionals and
case statements extensively used in classical programming. A simple programming
language for supporting this kind of quantum recursion is defined, and its
semantics is formally described. A series of examples are presented to show
that some quantum algorithms can be elegantly written as quantum recursive
programs.

The quantum stabilizer formalism was originally introduced to describe
quantum error correction codes more conveniently and now are also playing an
important role in many other fields, e.g., quantum computing and quantum
foundation. In this dissertation, we first introduce relevant background and
necessary basic knowledge, then introduce the definition of quantum stabilizer
and its application in quantum system evolution and measurement. Finally, we
try to extend the quantum stabilizer formalism to qubit-qutrit and
qubit-ququart systems which not defined before, and further define quantum
stabilizers of arbitrary composite systems.

We consider the discrimination of bipartite quantum states and establish a
relation between nonlocal quantum state ensemble and quantum data hiding
processing. Using a bound on optimal local discrimination of bipartite quantum
states, we provide a sufficient condition for a bipartite quantum state
ensemble to be used to construct a quantum data-hiding scheme. Our results are
illustrated by examples in multidimensional bipartite quantum systems.

As we venture into the Intermediate-Scale Quantum (ISQ) era, the proficiency
of modular arithmetic operations becomes pivotal for advancing quantum
cryptographic algorithms. This study presents an array of quantum circuits,
each precision-engineered for modular arithmetic functions critical to
cryptographic applications. Central to our exposition are quantum modular
adders, multipliers, and exponential operators, whose designs are rigorously
optimized for ISQ devices. We provide a theoretical framework and practical
implementations in the PennyLane quantum software, bridging the gap between
conceptual and applied quantum computing. Our simulations validate the efficacy
of these methodologies, offering a strategic compass for developing quantum
algorithms that align with the rapid progression of quantum technology.

Variational Quantum Algorithms (VQAs) are expected to be promising algorithms
with quantum advantages that can be run at quantum computers in the close
future. In this work, we review simple rules in basic quantum circuits, and
propose a simplification method, Measurement Simplification, that simplifies
the expression for the measurement of quantum circuit. By the Measurement
Simplification, we simplified the specific result expression of VQAs and
obtained large improvements in calculation time and required memory size. Here
we applied Measurement Simplification to Variational Quantum Linear Solver
(VQLS), Variational Quantum Eigensolver (VQE) and other Quantum Machine
Learning Algorithms to show an example of speedup in the calculation time and
required memory size.

Q-system completion can be thought of as a notion of higher idempotent
completion of C*-2-categories. We introduce a notion of quantum bi-elements,
and study Q-system completion in the context of compact quantum groups. We
relate our notion of quantum bi-elements to already known notions of quantum
sets and quantum functions, and provide a description of Q-system completion of
the C*-2-category of compact quantum groups using quantum bi-elements

As quantum computers progress towards a larger scale, it is imperative that
the "top" of the computing-technology stack is improved. This project
investigates the quantum resources required to compute primitive arithmetic
algorithms, particularly multiplication. By using various quantum resource
estimators, like Microsoft's Azure Quantum Resource Estimator, one can
determine the resources required for numerous quantum algorithms [5]. In this
paper, we will provide a comprehensive resource analysis of numerous quantum
multiplication algorithms such as Karatsuba, schoolbook, and windowed
arithmetic for different qubit platforms (trapped ion, superconducting, and
Majorana) using the new Azure Quantum Resource Estimator.

Graph states are used to represent mathematical graphs as quantum states on
quantum computers. They can be formulated through stabilizer codes or directly
quantum gates and quantum states. In this paper we show that a quantum graph
neural network model can be understood and realized based on graph states. We
show that they can be used either as a parameterized quantum circuits to
represent neural networks or as an underlying structure to construct graph
neural networks on quantum computers.

This article explores the application of coding techniques for fault-tolerant
quantum computation and extends their usage to fault-tolerant quantum
communication. We review repeater-based quantum networks, emphasizing the roles
of coding theory and fault-tolerant quantum operations, particularly in the
context of quantum teleportation. We highlight that fault-tolerant
implementation of the Bell measurement enables reliable quantum communication
without requiring a universal set of quantum gates. Finally, we discuss various
quantum code candidates for achieving higher transmission rates.

We classify all compact quantum groups whose C*-algebra sits inside that of
the free unitary quantum groups $U_{N}^{+}$. In other words, we classify all
discrete quantum subgroups of $\widehat{U}_{N}^{+}$, thereby proving a quantum
variant of Kurosh's theorem to some extent. This yields interesting families
which can be described using free wreath products and free complexifications.
They can also be seen as quantum automorphism groups of specific quantum graphs
which generalize finite rooted regular trees, providing explicit examples of
quantum trees.

We introduce a quantum extension of dynamic programming, a fundamental
computational method for efficiently solving recursive problems using memory.
Our innovation lies in showing how to coherently generate unitaries of
recursion steps using memorized intermediate quantum states. We find that
quantum dynamic programming yields an exponential reduction in circuit depth
for a large class of fixed-point quantum recursions, including a known
recursive variant of the Grover's search. Additionally, we apply quantum
dynamic programming to a recently proposed double-bracket quantum algorithm for
diagonalization to obtain a new protocol for obliviously preparing a quantum
state in its Schmidt basis, providing a potential pathway for revealing
entanglement structures of unknown quantum states.

Quantum algorithms have shown successful results in solving noisy linear
problems with quantum samples in which cryptographic hard problems are
relevant. In this paper the previous results are investigated in detail,
leading to new quantum and classical algorithms under the same assumptions as
in the earlier works. To be specific, we present a polynomial-time quantum
algorithm for solving the ring learning with errors problem with quantum
samples which was deemed to be infeasible in [12], as well as polynomial-time
classical algorithms that are more efficient than the corresponding quantum
algorithms in solving the short integer solution problem with quantum samples
and the learning with errors problem with size-reduced quantum samples.

In this paper, we introduce a new approach to quantum benchmarking inspired
by quantum verification motivating new paradigms of quantum benchmarking. Our
proposed benchmark not only serves as a robust indicator of computational
capability but also offers scalability, customizability, and universality. By
providing formal statements regarding the quality of quantum devices while
assuming device consistency, we eliminate the reliance on heuristics. We
establish a deep connection between quantum verification and quantum
benchmarking. For practical application, we present a concrete benchmarking
protocol derived from a quantum verification protocol, and prove it to match
our redefined standards for quantum benchmarking.

We discuss the challenges that the standard (Humean and non-Humean) accounts
of laws face within the framework of quantum gravity where space and time may
not be fundamental. This paper identifies core (meta)physical features that cut
across a number of quantum gravity approaches and formalisms and that provide
seeds for articulating updated conceptions that could account for QG laws not
involving any spatio-temporal notions. To this aim, we will in particular
highlight the constitutive roles of quantum entanglement, quantum transition
amplitudes and quantum causal histories. These features also stress the
fruitful overlap between quantum gravity and quantum information theory.

This paper presents the first concolic testing framework specifically
designed for quantum programs. The framework defines quantum conditional
statements that quantify quantum states and presents a symbolization method for
quantum variables. Utilizing this framework, we generate path constraints for
each concrete execution path of a quantum program. These constraints guide the
exploration of new paths, with a quantum constraint solver determining the
outcomes to generate novel input samples and enhance branch coverage. We
implemented this framework in Python and integrated it with Qiskit for
practical evaluation. Experimental results demonstrate that our concolic
testing framework significantly improves branch coverage and the quality of
quantum input samples, demonstrating its effectiveness and efficiency in
quantum software testing.

We study the kinetics of confined carrier-phonon system in a quantum dot
under fast optical driving and discuss the resulting limitations to fast
coherent control over the quantum state in such systems.

Quantum interference is proposed as a tool to augment Quantum Computation.

In this paper we investigate the quantum nature of a 2+1 dimensional black
hole using the method [arXiv: gr-qc/0504030] which earlier revealed the quantum
nature of a black hole in 3+1 dimensions.

The Hilbert space formalism of quantum mechanics is reviewed with emphasis on
applications to quantum computing. Standard interferomeric techniques are used
to construct a physical device capable of universal quantum computation. Some
consequences for recursion theory and complexity theory are discussed.

Quantum Field Theory (QFT) developed in Rindler space-time and its thermal
properties are analyzed by means of quantum groups approach. The quantum
deformation parameter, labelling the unitarily inequivalent representations,
turns out to be related to the acceleration of the Rindler frame.

The quantum analogues of Pauli matrices are introduced and investigated. From
these matrices and an appropriate trace over spinorial indiceswe construct a
quantum Minkowsky metric. In this framework, we show explicitely the
correspondance between the SL(2,C) and Lorentz quantum groups.

In this paper, we give the quantum analogue of the dual matrices for the
quantum supergroup $GL_q(1|1)$ and discuss these properties of the quantum dual
supermatrices.

The main theorem of the paper allows to generalize a class of identities
among the quantum minors for quantum linear groups to similar identities but
with the row labels of the quantum minors involved permuted.

We address a conceptual issue of reconciling the traditional canonical
quantization framework of quantum theory with the spatially restricted quantum
dynamics and the related spectral problems for confined and global observables
of the quantum system.

We define dynamical systems where time is a quantum group. We give the
definition of quantum ergodicity for the introduced dynamical system with
noncommutative (or quantum) time, and discuss the examples.

We describe a generalization of Drinfeld's description of the center of a
quantum group to the case of quantum affine algebras. We use the obtained
central elements to construct the affine analogue of Macdonald's difference
operators.

The quantum Galilei group $G_{\varkappa}$ is defined. The bicrossproduct
structure of $G_{\varkappa}$ and the corresponding Lie algebra is revealed. The
projective representations for the two-dimensional quantum Galilei group are
constructed.

All quantum group structures on the group GL(2) are classified. It is shown
that there are only two such structures, the well known quantum groups
GL$_{qp}$(2) and GL$_{hh'}$(2).

Using the Kontsevich's moduli space of stable maps, we define the equivariant
quantum cohomology for generalized flag varieties and make a rigorous
computation of quantum cohomology of flag varieties.

We carry out a generalization of quantum group co-representations in order to
encode in this structure those cases where non-commutativity between
endomorphism matrix entries and quantum space coordinates happens.

In this paper we present our variant of quantum antisymmetry and quantum
Jacobi identity.

Double-bosonisation associates to a braided group in the category of modules
of a quantum group, a new quantum group. We announce the semiclassical version
of this inductive construction.

We give a skein theoretic proof the Reshetikhin hook length formula for
quantum dimension for the quantum group U_q(sl(N)).

We demonstrate an implementation of a quantum search algorithm on a two qubit
NMR quantum computer based on cytosine.

It is shown that probabilistic treatment of quantum mechanics can be
coordinated with causality of all physical processes. The physical
interpretation of quantum-mechanical phenomena such as process of measurement
and collapse of quantum state is given.

Amongst the multitude of state reconstruction techniques, the so-called
"quantum tomography" seems to be the most fruitful. In this letter, I will
start by developing the mathematical apparatus of quantum tomography and,
later, I will explain how it can be applied to various quantum systems.

We define and show how to construct nonbinary quantum stabilizer codes. Our
approach is based on nonbinary error bases. It generalizes the relationship
between selforthogonal codes over $GF_{4}$ and binary quantum codes to one
between selforthogonal codes over $GF_{q^2}$ and $q$-ary quantum codes for any
prime power $q$.

It is shown that quantum tomography can detect and correct unlimited number
of errors during the evaluation of quantum algorithms on quantum computer.

We discuss maximum entangled states of quantum systems in terms of quantum
fluctuations of all essential measurements responsible for manifestation of
entanglement. Namely, we consider maximum entanglement as a property of states,
for which quantum fluctuations come to their extreme.

We construct efficient quantum logic network for probabilistic cloning the
quantum states used in implemented tasks for which cloning provides some
enhancement in performance.

It is shown that the no-signaling condition is not needed in order to argue a
linear quantum dynamics from standard quantum statics and the usual
interpretation of quantum measurement outcomes as probabilistic mixtures.

In quantum cryptography the optimal eavesdropping strategy requires that the
eavesdropper uses quantum memories in order to optimize her information. What
happens if the eavesdropper has no quantum memory? It is shown that the best
strategy is actually to adopt the simple intercept/resend strategy.

It was claimed that all quantum string seals are insecure [H. F. Chau,
quant-ph/0602099]. However, here it will be shown that for imperfect quantum
string seals, the information obtained by the measurement proposed in that
reference is trivial. Therefore imperfect quantum string seals can be
unconditionally secure.

We investigate the quantum recurrence phenomena in periodically driven
systems.
  We calculate the classical period and the quantum recurrence time and develop
their interdependence. We further predict the behavior of the recurrence
phenomena for the power law potentials.

Since Deutsch (1985), quantum computers have been modeled exclusively in the
language of state vectors and the Schroedinger equation. We present a
complementary view of quantum circuits inspired by the path integral formalism
of quantum mechanics, and examine its application to some simple textbook
problems.

Critical comments on the recent papers supporting the idea of resilient
quantum computations are presented.

It is argued that 't Hooft's deterministic program does not disenchant the
quantum world but rather inspires the incantation of the classical one.

The basics of the Wigner formulation of Quantum-Mechanics and few related
interpretational issues are presented in a simple language.
  This formulation has extensive applications in Quantum Optics and in Mixed
Quantum-Classical formulations.

We study the quantum theory of a simple general relativistic quantum model of
two coupled harmonic oscillators and compute the two-point function following a
proposal first introduced in the context of loop quantum gravity.

We discuss the "partial" quantum cloning of the pure two-partite states, when
the "part" of initial state related to the one qubit is copied only. The same
approach gives the possibility to design the quantum copying machine for the
mixed qubit states.

In the paper it is shown the connection between spacetime and quantum
information using an information spacetime as superspace. The connection of
quantum information with anticommuting variables is given . Also a solitonic
bag is presented where the information is confined.

In the framework of an algebraic approach, we consider a quantum
teleportation procedure. It turns out that using the quantum measurement
nonlocality hypothesis is unnecessary for describing this procedure. We study
the question of what material objects are information carriers for quantum
teleportation.

In this paper we study the quantum wave packet of the Schrodinger equation
for continuous quantum measurements.

We study concretely how classical signals should be processed in quantum
cluster-state computation. Deforming corresponding quantum teleportation
circuit, we find a simple rule of a classical signal-flow to obtain correct
quantum computation results.

We solve the problem of the classification of perfect quantum codes. We prove
that the only nontrivial perfect quantum codes are those with the parameters .
There exist no other nontrivial perfect quantum codes.

the stability criterion is constructed for open quantum systems which govern
by quantum stochastic differential equations (QSDE) both for quantum observable
flow and the stochastic density operator. We derive stability criteria (local,
asymptotic and exponential stability) for those QSDE.

Recent progress in manipulating quantum states of light and matter brings
quantum-enhanced measurements closer to prospective applications. The current
challenge is to make quantum metrologic strategies robust against
imperfections.

This dissertation presents investigations on dynamics of discrete-time
quantum walk and some of its applications. Quantum walks has been exploited as
an useful tool for quantum algorithms in quantum computing. Beyond quantum
computational purposes, it has been used to explain and control the dynamics in
various physical systems. In order to use the quantum walk to its fullest
potential, it is important to know and optimize the properties purely due to
quantum dynamics and in presence of noise. Various studies of its dynamics in
the absence and presence of noise have been reported. We propose new approaches
to optimize the dynamics, discuss symmetries and effect of noise on the quantum
walk. Making use of its properties, we propose the use of quantum walk as an
efficient new tool for various applications in physical systems and quantum
information processing. In the first and second part of this dissertation, we
discuss evolution process of the quantum walks, propose and demonstrate the
optimization of discrete-time quantum walk using quantum coin operation from
SU(2) group and discuss some of its properties. We investigate symmetry
operations and environmental effects on dynamics of the walk on a line and an
n-cycle highlighting the interplay between noise and topology. Using the
properties and behavior of quantum walk discussed in part two, in part three we
propose the application of quantum walk to realize quantum phase transition in
optical lattice, that is to efficiently control and redistribute ultracold
atoms in optical lattice. We also discuss the implementation scheme. Another
application we consider is creation of spatial entanglement using quantum walk
on a quantum many body system.

This article provides a brief overview of some fundamental effects of quantum
fields under extreme conditions. For the Schwinger mechanism, Hawking
radiation, and the Unruh effect, analogies to quantum optics are discussed,
which might help to approach to these phenomena from an experimental point of
view.

Some relations of the quantum potential to Weyl geometry are indicated with
applications to the Friedmann equations for a toy quantum cosmology. Osmotic
velocity and pressure are briefly discussed in terms of quantum mechanics and
superfluids with connections to gravity.

We propose a Witness for a measure of genuine multipartite quantum discord
for arbitrary N partite quantum state.

Using the Cantero-Grunbaum-Moral-Velazquez (CGMV) method, we obtain the
spectral measure for the quantum walk.

A quantum protocol for bit commitment the security of which is based on
technological limitations on nondemolition measurements and long-term quantum
memory is presented.

A discussion of the prospects for quantum computation for quantum chemistry
from the point of view of the history of classical calculations of electronic
structure.

An overview is given of the nature of the quantum mechanical wave function.

Quantum logic understood as a reconstruction program had real successes and
genuine limitations. This paper offers a synopsis of both and suggests a way of
seeing quantum logic in a larger, still thriving context.

We discuss the use of back-action of quantum measurements as a resource for
controlling quantum systems and review its application to optimal approximation
of quantum anti-Zeno effect.

The multiparameter quantum Pfaffian of the $(p, \lambda)$-quantum group is
introduced and studied together with the quantum determinant, and an identity
relating the two invariants is given. Generalization to the multiparameter
hyper-Pfaffian and relationship with the quantum minors are also considered.

We demonstrate how one can see quantization of geometry, and quantum
algebraic structure in supersymmetric gauge theory.

We analyze the procedure providing quantum cheques of S. R. Moulick and P. K.
Panigrahi to produce quantum e-cheques, based on multiparty quantum
telecommunication between customer and cooperated branches of bank.

The Quantum Internet is envisioned as the final stage of the quantum
revolution, opening fundamentally new communications and computing
capabilities, including the distributed quantum computing. But the Quantum
Internet is governed by the laws of quantum mechanics. Phenomena with no
counterpart in classical networks, such as no-cloning, quantum measurement,
entanglement and teleporting, impose very challenging constraints for the
network design. Specifically, classical network functionalities, ranging from
error-control mechanisms to overhead-control strategies, are based on the
assumption that classical information can be safely read and copied. But this
assumption does not hold in the Quantum Internet. As a consequence, the design
of the Quantum Internet requires a major network-paradigm shift to harness the
quantum mechanics specificities. The goal of this work is to shed light on the
challenges and the open problems of the Quantum Internet design. To this aim,
we first introduce some basic knowledge of quantum mechanics, needed to
understand the differences between a classical and a quantum network. Then, we
introduce quantum teleportation as the key strategy for transmitting quantum
information without physically transferring the particle that stores the
quantum information or violating the principles of the quantum mechanics.
Finally, the key research challenges to design quantum communication networks
are described.

In this brief note, I clarify the crucial differences between three different
protocols of quantum channel discrimination, after some confusion has appeared
in recent literature.

Knowledge extraction, typically studied in the classical setting, is at the
heart of several cryptographic protocols. We introduce the notion of secure
quantum extraction protocols. A secure quantum extraction protocol for an NP
relation $\mathcal{R}$ is a classical interactive protocol between a sender and
a receiver, where the sender gets the instance $z$ and a witness $w$, while the
receiver only gets the instance $z$. For any efficient quantum adversarial
sender (who follows the protocol but can choose its own randomness), there
exists a quantum extractor that can extract a witness $w'$ such that $(z,w')
\in \mathcal{R}$ while a malicious receiver should not be able to output any
valid witness. We study and construct two types of secure quantum extraction
protocols.
  (1) Quantum extraction protocols secure against quantum malicious receivers
based on quantum fully homomorphic encryption satisfying some mild properties
and quantum hardness of learning with errors. In this construction, we
introduce a non black box technique in the quantum setting. All previous
extraction techniques in the quantum setting were solely based on quantum
rewinding.
  (2) Quantum extraction protocols secure against classical malicious receivers
based on quantum hardness of learning with errors.
  As an application, based on the quantum hardness of learning with errors, we
present a construction of constant round quantum zero-knowledge argument
systems for NP that guarantee security even against quantum malicious
verifiers; however, our soundness only holds against classical probabilistic
polynomial time adversaries. Prior to our work, such protocols were known
based, additionally, on the assumptions of decisional Diffie-Hellman (or other
cryptographic assumptions that do not hold against polynomial time quantum
algorithms).

The eigenstate thermalization hypothesis as well as the quantum ergodic
theorem are studied in the light of quantum Fisher information. We show how
global bounds on quantum Fisher information set the ETH and ergodicity
conditions. Complexity and operator growth are briefly discussed in this frame.

Experimental tests for assessing the physical reality of the hypothetical
wave modes of quantum vacuum with zero-point energy are of fundamental
importance for quantum field theories and cosmology. Physical effects like the
Casimir effect have alternate description in terms of retarded interaction
between charged matter, due to quantum fluctuations of material dipoles.
However, there are simple quantum optical configurations where the hypothetical
quantum vacuum modes seem to assume an essential real role in the observable
quantum noise of optical signals. I present the logical and theoretical basis
of a decisive test that relies on the comparisons of balanced homodyne
detection with a novel differential scheme of balanced wave-front division
detection, when the two real optical beams at the detectors are derived from
one coherent beam as input. Both ideal and practical configurations of my
experimental test are discussed. Results from the experiments on balanced
detection, beam localization of optical beams, and atomic Bose-Einstein
condensates are used to reach definite conclusions against the reality of the
wave modes of quantum vacuum. It is shown that the entire quantum noise follows
consistently from the state reduction of quantum superpositions of
particle-number states at the point of detection, where the quantum measurement
is completed. This is consistent with the demonstrated applications of squeezed
light in interferometry and quantum metrology. This result achieves consistency
between quantum noise in quantum optics and observational cosmology based on
general relativity, by avoiding the wave modes of quantum vacuum with divergent
zero-point energy density. Generalization from the limited sphere of quantum
optics to general quantum field theories promises the complete solution to the
problem of a divergent cosmological constant.

We show a superpolynomial oracle separation between the power of adiabatic
quantum computation with no sign problem and the power of classical
computation.

Living organisms exploit complex molecular machines to execute crucial
functions in chaotic environments. Inspired by nature's molecular setups we
explore the idea of a quantum mechanical device whose purpose is
self-protecting quantum information against a noisy environment.

This review article summarizes the requirement of low temperature conditions
in existing experimental approaches to quantum computation and quantum
simulation.

Worldwide enormous efforts are directed towards the development of the
so-called quantum internet. Turning this long sought-after dream into reality
is a great challenge that will require breakthroughs in quantum communication
and computing. To establish a global, quantum-secured communication
infrastructure, photonic quantum technologies will doubtlessly play a major
role, by providing and interfacing essential quantum resources, e.g., flying-
and stationary qubits or quantum memories. Over the last decade, significant
progress has been made in the engineering of on-demand quantum light sources
based on semiconductor quantum dots, which enable the generation of
close-to-ideal single- and entangled-photon states, useful for quantum
cryptography tasks. This review focuses on implementations of, and building
blocks for, quantum communication using quantum-light sources based on
epitaxial semiconductor quantum dots. After reviewing the main notions of
quantum cryptography (section 1) and introducing the devices used for
single-photon and entangled-photon generation (section 2), it provides an
overview of experimental implementations of cryptographic protocols using
quantum dot based quantum light sources (section 3). Furthermore, recent
progress towards quantum-secured communication networks as well as building
blocks thereof is summarized (section 4). The article closes with an outlook,
discussing future perspectives in the field and identifying the main challenges
to be solved.

A unified framework for different formulations of quantum theoery is
introduced specifying what is meant by a quantum mechanical theory in general.

Recent developments in elementary quantum mechanics have seen a number of
extraordinary claims regarding quantum behaviour, and even questioning internal
consistency of the theory. These are, we argue, different disguises of what
Feynman described as quantum theory's "only mystery".

In this work, quantum transformers are designed and analysed in detail by
extending the state-of-the-art classical transformer neural network
architectures known to be very performant in natural language processing and
image analysis. Building upon the previous work, which uses parametrised
quantum circuits for data loading and orthogonal neural layers, we introduce
three types of quantum transformers for training and inference, including a
quantum transformer based on compound matrices, which guarantees a theoretical
advantage of the quantum attention mechanism compared to their classical
counterpart both in terms of asymptotic run time and the number of model
parameters. These quantum architectures can be built using shallow quantum
circuits and produce qualitatively different classification models. The three
proposed quantum attention layers vary on the spectrum between closely
following the classical transformers and exhibiting more quantum
characteristics. As building blocks of the quantum transformer, we propose a
novel method for loading a matrix as quantum states as well as two new
trainable quantum orthogonal layers adaptable to different levels of
connectivity and quality of quantum computers. We performed extensive
simulations of the quantum transformers on standard medical image datasets that
showed competitively, and at times better performance compared to the classical
benchmarks, including the best-in-class classical vision transformers. The
quantum transformers we trained on these small-scale datasets require fewer
parameters compared to standard classical benchmarks. Finally, we implemented
our quantum transformers on superconducting quantum computers and obtained
encouraging results for up to six qubit experiments.

Quantum cloud computing is a promising paradigm for efficiently provisioning
quantum resources (i.e., qubits) to users. In quantum cloud computing, quantum
cloud providers provision quantum resources in reservation and on-demand plans
for users. Literally, the cost of quantum resources in the reservation plan is
expected to be cheaper than the cost of quantum resources in the on-demand
plan. However, quantum resources in the reservation plan have to be reserved in
advance without information about the requirement of quantum circuits
beforehand, and consequently, the resources are insufficient, i.e.,
under-reservation. Hence, quantum resources in the on-demand plan can be used
to compensate for the unsatisfied quantum resources required. To end this, we
propose a quantum resource allocation for the quantum cloud computing system in
which quantum resources and the minimum waiting time of quantum circuits are
jointly optimized. Particularly, the objective is to minimize the total costs
of quantum circuits under uncertainties regarding qubit requirement and minimum
waiting time of quantum circuits. In experiments, practical circuits of quantum
Fourier transform are applied to evaluate the proposed qubit resource
allocation. The results illustrate that the proposed qubit resource allocation
can achieve the optimal total costs.

We pose and address the radical question that whether quantum mechanics,
known for its firm internal structure and enormous empirical success, carries
in itself the genome of larger quantum theories which have higher internal
intricacies and phenomenological versatilities. That is, on the basic level of
closed quantum systems and regardless of interpretational aspects, whether
standard quantum theory (SQT) harbors quantum theories with context-based
deformed principles or structures, having definite predictive power within
broader scopes. We answer the question in affirmative following complementary
evidence and reasoning arising from quantum-computation-based quantum
simulation and fundamental, general, abstract rationales in the frameworks of
information theory, fundamental or functional emergence, and participatory
agency. In this light, as we show, one is led to the recently proposed
experience-centric quantum theory (ECQT), which is a larger and richer theory
of quantum behaviors with drastically generalized quantum dynamics. ECQT allows
the quantum information of the closed quantum system's developed state history
to continually contribute to defining manybody interactions, Hamiltonians, and
even internal elements and ``particles'' of the total system. Hence the unitary
evolutions are continually impacted and become guidable by the agent-system's
experience. The intrinsic interplay of unitarity and non-Markovianity in ECQT
brings about a host of diverse behavioral phases, which concurrently infuse
closed and open quantum system characteristics and even surpasses the theory of
open systems in SQT. In the broader perspective, an upshot of our investigation
is the existence of the quantum interactome--the interactive landscape of all
coexisting, independent context-based quantum theories which emerge from
inferential participatory agencies--and its predictive phenomenological
utility.

We present a strong connection between quantum information and quantum
permutation groups. Specifically, we define a notion of quantum isomorphisms of
graphs based on quantum automorphisms from the theory of quantum groups, and
then show that this is equivalent to the previously defined notion of quantum
isomorphism corresponding to perfect quantum strategies to the isomorphism
game. Moreover, we show that two connected graphs $X$ and $Y$ are quantum
isomorphic if and only if there exists $x \in V(X)$ and $y \in V(Y)$ that are
in the same orbit of the quantum automorphism group of the disjoint union of
$X$ and $Y$. This connection links quantum groups to the more concrete notion
of nonlocal games and physically observable quantum behaviours. We exploit this
link by using ideas and results from quantum information in order to prove new
results about quantum automorphism groups, and about quantum permutation groups
more generally. In particular, we show that asymptotically almost surely all
graphs have trivial quantum automorphism group. Furthermore, we use examples of
quantum isomorphic graphs from previous work to construct an infinite family of
graphs which are quantum vertex transitive but fail to be vertex transitive,
answering a question from the quantum group literature.
  Our main tool for proving these results is the introduction of orbits and
orbitals (orbits on ordered pairs) of quantum permutation groups. We show that
the orbitals of a quantum permutation group form a coherent
configuration/algebra, a notion from the field of algebraic graph theory. We
then prove that the elements of this quantum orbital algebra are exactly the
matrices that commute with the magic unitary defining the quantum group. We
furthermore show that quantum isomorphic graphs admit an isomorphism of their
quantum orbital algebras which maps the adjacency matrix of one graph to that
of the other.

Many recent machine learning tasks resort to quantum computing to improve
classification accuracy and training efficiency by taking advantage of quantum
mechanics, known as quantum machine learning (QML). The variational quantum
circuit (VQC) is frequently utilized to build a quantum neural network (QNN),
which is a counterpart to the conventional neural network. Due to hardware
limitations, however, current quantum devices only allow one to use few qubits
to represent data and perform simple quantum computations. The limited quantum
resource on a single quantum device degrades the data usage and limits the
scale of the quantum circuits, preventing quantum advantage to some extent. To
alleviate this constraint, we propose an approach to implementing a scalable
quantum neural network (SQNN) by utilizing the quantum resource of multiple
small-size quantum devices cooperatively. In an SQNN system, several quantum
devices are used as quantum feature extractors, extracting local features from
an input instance in parallel, and a quantum device works as a quantum
predictor, performing prediction over the local features collected through
classical communication channels. The quantum feature extractors in the SQNN
system are independent of each other, so one can flexibly use quantum devices
of varying sizes, with larger quantum devices extracting more local features.
Especially, the SQNN can be performed on a single quantum device in a modular
fashion. Our work is exploratory and carried out on a quantum system simulator
using the TensorFlow Quantum library. The evaluation conducts a binary
classification on the MNIST dataset. It shows that the SQNN model achieves a
comparable classification accuracy to a regular QNN model of the same scale.
Furthermore, it demonstrates that the SQNN model with more quantum resources
can significantly improve classification accuracy.

We introduce the quantum multi-Schur functions, quantum factorial Schur
functions and quantum Macdonald polynomials. We prove that for restricted
vexillary permutations the quantum double Schubert polynomial coincides with
some quantum multi-Schur function and prove a quantum analog of the
Nagelsbach-Kostka and Jacobi-Trudi formulae for the quantum double Schubert
polynomials in the case of Grassmannian permutations. We prove, also, an analog
of the Billey-Jockusch-Stanley formula for quantum Schubert polynomials.
Finally we formulate two conjectures about the structure of quantum double and
quantum Schubert polynomials for 321-avoiding permutations.

Quantum information theory is the study of the achievable limits of
information processing within quantum mechanics. Many different types of
information can be accommodated within quantum mechanics, including classical
information, coherent quantum information, and entanglement. Exploring the rich
variety of capabilities allowed by these types of information is the subject of
quantum information theory, and of this Dissertation. In particular, I
demonstrate several novel limits to the information processing ability of
quantum mechanics. Results of especial interest include: the demonstration of
limitations to the class of measurements which may be performed in quantum
mechanics; a capacity theorem giving achievable limits to the transmission of
classical information through a two-way noiseless quantum channel; resource
bounds on distributed quantum computation; a new proof of the quantum noiseless
channel coding theorem; an information-theoretic characterization of the
conditions under which quantum error-correction may be achieved; an analysis of
the thermodynamic limits to quantum error-correction, and new bounds on channel
capacity for noisy quantum channels.

Quantum measurement is universal for quantum computation. Two models for
performing measurement-based quantum computation exist: the one-way quantum
computer was introduced by Briegel and Raussendorf, and quantum computation via
projective measurements only by Nielsen. The more recent development of this
second model is based on state transfers instead of teleportation. From this
development, a finite but approximate quantum universal family of observables
is exhibited, which includes only one two-qubit observable, while others are
one-qubit observables. In this article, an infinite but exact quantum universal
family of observables is proposed, including also only one two-qubit
observable.
  The rest of the paper is dedicated to compare these two models of
measurement-based quantum computation, i.e. one-way quantum computation and
quantum computation via projective measurements only. From this comparison,
which was initiated by Cirac and Verstraete, closer and more natural
connections appear between these two models. These close connections lead to a
unified view of measurement-based quantum computation.

The classical de Finetti theorem provides an operational definition of the
concept of an unknown probability in Bayesian probability theory, where
probabilities are taken to be degrees of belief instead of objective states of
nature. In this paper, we motivate and review two results that generalize de
Finetti's theorem to the quantum mechanical setting: Namely a de Finetti
theorem for quantum states and a de Finetti theorem for quantum operations. The
quantum-state theorem, in a closely analogous fashion to the original de
Finetti theorem, deals with exchangeable density-operator assignments and
provides an operational definition of the concept of an "unknown quantum state"
in quantum-state tomography. Similarly, the quantum-operation theorem gives an
operational definition of an "unknown quantum operation" in quantum-process
tomography. These results are especially important for a Bayesian
interpretation of quantum mechanics, where quantum states and (at least some)
quantum operations are taken to be states of belief rather than states of
nature.

Quantum control theory is profitably reexamined from the perspective of
quantum information, two results on the role of quantum information technology
in quantum feedback control are presented and two quantum feedback control
schemes, teleportation-based distant quantum feedback control and quantum
feedback control with quantum cloning, are proposed. In the first feedback
scheme, the output from the quantum system to be controlled is fed back into
the distant actuator via teleportation to alter the dynamics of system. The
result theoretically shows that it can accomplish some tasks such as distant
feedback quantum control that Markovian or Bayesian quantum feedback can't
complete. In the second feedback strategy, the design of quantum feedback
control algorithms is separated into a state recognition step, which gives
"on-off" signal to the actuator through recognizing some copies from the
cloning machine, and a feedback (control) step using another copies of cloning
machine. A compromise between information acquisition and measurement
disturbance is established, and this strategy can perform some quantum control
tasks with coherent feedback.

The development of quantum algorithms based on quantum versions of random
walks is placed in the context of the emerging field of quantum computing.
Constructing a suitable quantum version of a random walk is not trivial: pure
quantum dynamics is deterministic, so randomness only enters during the
measurement phase, i.e., when converting the quantum information into classical
information. The outcome of a quantum random walk is very different from the
corresponding classical random walk, due to interference between the different
possible paths. The upshot is that quantum walkers find themselves further from
their starting point on average than a classical walker, and this forms the
basis of a quantum speed up that can be exploited to solve problems faster.
Surprisingly, the effect of making the walk slightly less than perfectly
quantum can optimize the properties of the quantum walk for algorithmic
applications. Looking to the future, with even a small quantum computer
available, development of quantum walk algorithms might proceed more rapidly
than it has, especially for solving real problems.

Matter-light quantum interface and quantum memory for light are important
ingredients of quantum information protocols, such as quantum networks,
distributed quantum computation, etc. In this Letter we present a spatially
multimode scheme for quantum memory for light, which we call a quantum
hologram. Our approach uses a multi-atom ensemble which has been shown to be
efficient for a single spatial mode quantum memory. Due to the multi-atom
nature of the ensemble it is capable of storing many spatial modes, a feature
critical for the present proposal. A quantum hologram has a higher storage
capacity compared to a classical hologram, and is capable of storing quantum
features of an image, such as multimode superposition and entangled quantum
states, something that a standard hologram is unable to achieve. Due to optical
parallelism, the information capacity of the quantum hologram will obviously
exceed that of a single-mode scheme.

Quantum states are very delicate, so it is likely some sort of quantum error
correction will be necessary to build reliable quantum computers. The theory of
quantum error-correcting codes has some close ties to and some striking
differences from the theory of classical error-correcting codes. Many quantum
codes can be described in terms of the stabilizer of the codewords. The
stabilizer is a finite Abelian group, and allows a straightforward
characterization of the error-correcting properties of the code. The stabilizer
formalism for quantum codes also illustrates the relationships to classical
coding theory, particularly classical codes over GF(4), the finite field with
four elements. To build a quantum computer which behaves correctly in the
presence of errors, we also need a theory of fault-tolerant quantum
computation, instructing us how to perform quantum gates on qubits which are
encoded in a quantum error-correcting code. The threshold theorem states that
it is possible to create a quantum computer to perform an arbitrary quantum
computation provided the error rate per physical gate or time step is below
some constant threshold value.

Open quantum systems have attracted great attention, since inevitable
coupling between quantum systems and their environment greatly affects the
features of interest of these systems. Quantum discord, is a measure of the
total nonclassical correlation in a quantum system that includes, but is not
exclusive to, the distinct property of quantum entanglement. Quantum discord
can exist in separated quantum states and plays an important role in many
fundamental physics problems and practical quantum information tasks. There
have been numerous investigations on quantum discord and its counterpart
classical correlation. This short review focuses on highlighting the
system-environment dynamics of two-qubit quantum discord and the influence of
initial system-environment correlations on the dynamics of open quantum
systems. The external control effect on the dynamics of open quantum systems
are involved. Several related experimental works are discussed.

Quantum mechanics dramatically differs from classical physics, allowing for a
wide range of genuinely quantum phenomena. The goal of quantum information is
to understand information processing from a quantum perspective. In this
mindset, it is thus natural to focus on tasks where quantum resources provide
an advantage over classical ones, and to overlook tasks where quantum mechanics
provides no advantage. But are the latter tasks really useless from a more
general perspective? Here we discuss a simple information-theoretic game called
'guess your neighbour's input', for which classical and quantum players perform
equally well. We will see that this seemingly innocuous game turns out to be
useful in various contexts. From a fundamental point of view, the game provides
a sharp separation between quantum mechanics and other more general physical
theories, hence bringing a deeper understanding of the foundations of quantum
mechanics. The game also finds unexpected applications in quantum foundations
and quantum information theory, related to Gleason's theorem, and to bound
entanglement and unextendible product bases.

This paper considers quantum network coding, which is a recent technique that
enables quantum information to be sent on complex networks at higher rates than
by using straightforward routing strategies. Kobayashi et al. have recently
showed the potential of this technique by demonstrating how any classical
network coding protocol gives rise to a quantum network coding protocol. They
nevertheless primarily focused on an abstract model, in which quantum resource
such as quantum registers can be freely introduced at each node. In this work,
we present a protocol for quantum network coding under weaker (and more
practical) assumptions: our new protocol works even for quantum networks where
adjacent nodes initially share one EPR-pair but cannot add any quantum
registers or send any quantum information. A typically example of networks
satisfying this assumption is {\emph{quantum repeater networks}}, which are
promising candidates for the implementation of large scale quantum networks.
Our results thus show, for the first time, that quantum network coding
techniques can increase the transmission rate in such quantum networks as well.

Since a limit distribution of a discrete-time quantum walk on the line was
derived in 2002, a lot of limit theorems for quantum walks with a localized
initial state have been reported. On the other hand, in quantum probability
theory, there are four notions of independence (free, monotone, commuting, and
boolean independence) and quantum central limit theorems associated to each
independence have been investigated. The relation between quantum walks and
quantum probability theory is still unknown. As random walks are fundamental
models in the Kolmogorov probability theory, can the quantum walks play an
important role in quantum probability theory? To discuss this problem, we focus
on a discrete-time 2-state quantum walk with a non-localized initial state and
present a limit theorem. By using our limit theorem, we generate probability
laws in the quantum central limit theorems from the quantum walk.

Codeword stabilized quantum codes provide a unified approach to constructing
quantum error-correcting codes, including both additive and non-additive
quantum codes. Standard codeword stabilized quantum codes encode quantum
information into subspaces. The more general notion of encoding quantum
information into a subsystem is known as an operator (or subsystem) quantum
error correcting code. Most operator codes studied to date are based in the
usual stabilizer formalism. We introduce operator quantum codes based on the
codeword stabilized quantum code framework. Based on the necessary and
sufficient conditions for operator quantum error correction, we derive a error
correction condition for operator codeword stabilized quantum codes. Based on
this condition, the word operators of a operator codeword stabilized quantum
code are constructed from a set of classical binary errors induced by
generators of the gauge group. We use this scheme to construct examples of both
additive and non-additive codes that encode quantum information into a
subsystem.

A remarkable difference between quantum and classical programs is that the
control flow of the former can be either classical or quantum. One of the key
issues in the theory of quantum programming languages is defining and
understanding quantum control flow. A functional language with quantum control
flow was defined by Altenkirch and Grattage [\textit{Proc. LICS'05}, pp.
249-258]. This paper extends their work, and we introduce a general quantum
control structure by defining three new quantum program constructs, namely
quantum guarded command, quantum choice and quantum recursion. We clarify the
relation between quantum choices and probabilistic choices. An interesting
difference between quantum recursions with classical control flows and with
quantum control flows is revealed.

Quantum metrology is the science that aims to achieve precision measurements
by making use of quantum principles. Attribute to the well-developed techniques
of manipulating and detecting cold atoms, cold atomic systems provide an
excellent platform for implementing precision quantum metrology. In this
chapter, we review the general procedures of quantum metrology and some
experimental progresses in quantum metrology with cold atoms. Firstly, we give
the general framework of quantum metrology and the calculation of quantum
Fisher information, which is the core of quantum parameter estimation. Then, we
introduce the quantum interferometry with single and multiparticle states. In
particular, for some typical multiparticle states, we analyze their ultimate
precision limits and show how quantum entanglement could enhance the
measurement precision beyond the standard quantum limit. Further, we review
some experimental progresses in quantum metrology with cold atomic systems.

We consider the quantum correlations for a S=1/2 Ising- Heisenberg model of a
symmetrical diamond chain. Firstly, we compare concurrence, quantum discord and
1- norm geometric quantum discord of an ideal diamond chain in the absence of
magnetic field. The results show no simple ordering relations between these
quantum correlations, so that quantum discord may be smaller or larger than the
1-norm geometric quantum discord, which this observation contradict the
previous result that provided by F. M. Paula [1]. Symmetrical behavior of
quantum correlation versus ferromagnetic and anti- ferromagnetic coupling
constant J is considerable. The effect of external magnetic field H and
temperature- dependence is also considered. Furthermore, we study quantum
discord and geometric measure of quantum discord with the effect of next
nearest neighbor interaction between nodal Ising sites for a generalized
diamond chain, and we observe coexistence of phases with different values of
magnetic field for quantum correlations. Moreover, entanglement sudden death
occurs while quantum discord, 1- norm geometric quantum discord and geometric
quantum discord are immune from sudden death.

We have introduced a measure of Gaussian quantum correlations based on
quantum Fisher information. For bipartite Gaussian states the minimum quantum
Fisher information due to local unitary evolution on one of the parties
reliably quantifies quantum correlation. In quantum metrology the proposed
measure becomes the tool to investigate the role of quantum orrelation in
setting metrological precision. In particular, a deeper insights can be gained
on how quantum correlations are instrumental to enhance metrological precision.
Our analysis demonstrates that not only entanglement but also quantum
correlation plays an important role to enhance metrological precision. Clearly
unraveling the underlaying mechanism we show that quantum correlations, even in
the absence of entanglement, can be exploited as the resource to beat standard
quantum limit and attain Heisenberg limit in quantum metrology.

Quantum entanglement of particles is regarded as a fundamental character in
quantum information, in which quantum state should be given for whole system
instead of independently describing single particle. Constructing quantum
memory of photonic entanglement is essential for realizing quantum networks,
which had been performed previously by many memory protocols. Of which Raman
quantum memory gives advantages in broadband and high-speed properties,
resulting in huge potential in quantum network and quantum computation.
However, Raman quantum memory of photonic polarised entanglement is a challenge
work and still missing. Here, we report two Raman quantum memories based on gas
atomic ensembles: 1. Heralded Raman quantum memory of hybrid entanglement of
path and polarization of single photon. 2. Raman storage of two-particle
photonic polarised entangled state. Our experimental performances of these two
different Raman quantum storages of photonic entanglement show a very promising
prospective in quantum information science.

In quantum computation, series of quantum gates have to be arranged in a
predefined sequence that led to a quantum circuit in order to solve a
particular problem. What if the sequence of quantum gates is known but both the
problem to be solved and the outcome of the so defined quantum circuit remain
in the shadow? This is the situation of the stock market. The price time series
of a portfolio of stocks are organized in braids that effectively simulate
quantum gates in the hypothesis of Ising anyons quantum computational model.
Following the prescriptions of Ising anyons model, 1-qubit quantum gates are
constructed for portfolio composed of four stocks. Adding two additional stocks
at the initial portfolio result in 2-qubits quantum gates and circuits.
Hadamard gate, Pauli gates or controlled-Z gate are some of the elementary
quantum gates that are identified in the stock market structure. Addition of
other pairs of stocks, that eventually represent a market index, like Dow Jones
industrial Average, it results in a sequence of n-qubits quantum gates that
form a quantum code. Deciphering this mysterious quantum code of the stock
market is an issue for future investigations.

Quantum cryptography is the art and science of exploiting quantum mechanical
effects in order to perform cryptographic tasks. While the most well-known
example of this discipline is quantum key distribution (QKD), there exist many
other applications such as quantum money, randomness generation, secure two-
and multi-party computation and delegated quantum computation. Quantum
cryptography also studies the limitations and challenges resulting from quantum
adversaries---including the impossibility of quantum bit commitment, the
difficulty of quantum rewinding and the definition of quantum security models
for classical primitives. In this review article, aimed primarily at
cryptographers unfamiliar with the quantum world, we survey the area of
theoretical quantum cryptography, with an emphasis on the constructions and
limitations beyond the realm of QKD.

Verifiable blind quantum computing is a secure delegated quantum computing
where a client with a limited quantum technology delegates her quantum
computing to a server who has a universal quantum computer. The client's
privacy is protected (blindness) and the correctness of the computation is
verifiable by the client in spite of her limited quantum technology
(verifiability). There are mainly two types of protocols for verifiable blind
quantum computing: the protocol where the client has only to generate
single-qubit states, and the protocol where the client needs only the ability
of single-qubit measurements. The latter is called the measurement-only
verifiable blind quantum computing. If the input of the client's quantum
computing is a quantum state whose classical efficient description is not known
to the client, there was no way for the measurement-only client to verify the
correctness of the input. Here we introduce a new protocol of measurement-only
verifiable blind quantum computing where the correctness of the quantum input
is also verifiable.

The study of quantum walks has been shown to have a wide range of
applications in areas such as artificial intelligence, the study of biological
processes, and quantum transport. The quantum stochastic walk, which allows for
incoherent movement of the walker, and therefore, directionality, is a
generalization on the fully coherent quantum walk. While a quantum stochastic
walk can always be described in Lindblad formalism, this does not mean that it
can be microscopically derived in the standard weak-coupling limit under the
Born-Markov approximation. This restricts the class of quantum stochastic walks
that can be experimentally realized in a simple manner. To circumvent this
restriction, we introduce a technique to simulate open system evolution on a
fully coherent quantum computer, using a quantum trajectories style approach.
We apply this technique to a broad class of quantum stochastic walks, and show
that they can be simulated with minimal experimental resources. Our work opens
the path towards the experimental realization of quantum stochastic walks on
large graphs with existing quantum technologies.

We apply modern techniques from quantum optics and quantum information
science to Bose-Einstein Condensates (BECs) in order to study, for the first
time, the quantum decoherence of phonons of isolated BECs. In the last few
years, major advances in the manipulation and control of phonons have
highlighted their potential as carriers of quantum information in quantum
technologies, particularly in quantum processing and quantum communication.
Although most of these studies have focused on trapped ion and crystalline
systems, another promising system that has remained relatively unexplored is
BECs. The potential benefits in using this system have been emphasized recently
with proposals of relativistic quantum devices that exploit quantum states of
phonons in BECs to achieve, in principle, superior performance over standard
non-relativistic devices. Quantum decoherence is often the limiting factor in
the practical realization of quantum technologies, but here we show that
quantum decoherence of phonons is not expected to heavily constrain the
performance of these proposed relativistic quantum devices.

We present a comprehensive analysis of the landscape for full quantum-quantum
control associated with the expectation value of an arbitrary observable of one
quantum system controlled by another quantum system. It is shown that such full
quantum-quantum control landscapes are convex, and hence devoid of local
suboptima and saddle points that may exist in landscapes for quantum systems
controlled by time-dependent classical fields. There is no controllability
requirement for the full quantum-quantum landscape to be trap-free, although
the forms of Hamiltonians, the flexibility in choosing initial state of the
controller, as well as the control duration, can infulence the reachable
optimal value on the landscape. All level sets of the full quantum-quantum
landscape are connected convex sets. Finally, we show that the optimal solution
of the full quantum-quantum control landscape can be readily determined
numerically, which is demonstrated using the Jaynes-Cummings model depicting a
two-level atom interacting with a quantized radiation field.

Quantum Tunneling is ubiquitous across different fields, from quantum
chemical reactions, and magnetic materials to quantum simulators and quantum
computers. While simulating the real-time quantum dynamics of tunneling is
infeasible for high-dimensional systems, quantum tunneling also shows up in
quantum Monte Carlo (QMC) simulations that scale polynomially with system size.
Here we extend a recent results obtained for quantum spin models {[{Phys. Rev.
Lett.} {\bf 117}, 180402 (2016)]}, and study high-dimensional continuos
variable models for proton transfer reactions. We demonstrate that QMC
simulations efficiently recover ground state tunneling rates due to the
existence of an instanton path, which always connects the reactant state with
the product. We discuss the implications of our results in the context of
quantum chemical reactions and quantum annealing, where quantum tunneling is
expected to be a valuable resource for solving combinatorial optimization
problems.

We develop a unified approach to classical, quantum and post-quantum
steering. The framework is based on uncharacterised (black-box) parties
performing quantum measurements on their share of a (possibly unphysical)
quantum state, and its starting point is the characterisation of general
no-signalling assemblages via non-positive local hidden-state models. By
developing a connection to entanglement witnesses, this formalism allows for
new definitions of families of assemblages, in particular via (i)
non-decomposable positive maps and (ii) unextendible product bases. The former
proves to be useful for constructing post-quantum assemblages with the built-in
feature of yielding only quantum correlations in Bell experiments, while the
latter always gives certifiably post-quantum assemblages. Finally, our
framework is equipped with an inherent quantifier of post-quantum steering,
which we call the negativity of post-quantum steering. We postulate that
post-quantum steering should not increase under one-way quantum operations from
the steered parties to the steering parties, and we show that, in this sense,
the negativity of post-quantum steering is a convex post-quantum-steering
monotone.

The quantum autoencoder is a recent paradigm in the field of quantum machine
learning, which may enable an enhanced use of resources in quantum
technologies. To this end, quantum neural networks with less nodes in the inner
than in the outer layers were considered. Here, we propose a useful connection
between approximate quantum adders and quantum autoencoders. Specifically, this
link allows us to employ optimized approximate quantum adders, obtained with
genetic algorithms, for the implementation of quantum autoencoders for a
variety of initial states. Furthermore, we can also directly optimize the
quantum autoencoders via genetic algorithms. Our approach opens a different
path for the design of quantum autoencoders in controllable quantum platforms.

Quantum mechanics ensures that the information stored in a quantum state is
secure and the ability to send private information through a quantum channel is
at least as great as the coherent information. We derive trade-off relations
between quantum privacy, information gain by Eve and the disturbance caused by
Eve to the quantum state that is being sent through a noisy channel. For
tripartite quantum states, we show that monogamy of privacy exists in the case
of a single sender and multiple receivers. When Alice prepares a tripartite
entangled state and shares it with Bob and Charlie through two different noisy
quantum channels, we prove that if the minimally guaranteed quantum privacy
between Alice and Bob is positive, then the privacy of information between
Alice and Charlie has to be negative. Thus, quantum privacy for more than two
parties respects mutual exclusiveness. Then, we prove a monogamy relation for
the minimally guaranteed quantum privacy for tripartite systems. We also prove
a trade-off relation between the entanglement of formation across one partition
and the quantum privacy along another partition. Our results show that quantum
privacy cannot be freely shared among multiple parties and can have implication
in future quantum networks.

Noisy Intermediate-Scale Quantum (NISQ) technology will be available in the
near future. Quantum computers with 50-100 qubits may be able to perform tasks
which surpass the capabilities of today's classical digital computers, but
noise in quantum gates will limit the size of quantum circuits that can be
executed reliably. NISQ devices will be useful tools for exploring many-body
quantum physics, and may have other useful applications, but the 100-qubit
quantum computer will not change the world right away --- we should regard it
as a significant step toward the more powerful quantum technologies of the
future. Quantum technologists should continue to strive for more accurate
quantum gates and, eventually, fully fault-tolerant quantum computing.

Two primary facets of quantum technological advancement that hold great
promise are quantum communication and quantum computation. For quantum
communication, the canonical resource is entanglement. For quantum gate
implementation, the resource is 'magic' in an auxiliary system. It has already
been shown that quantum coherence is the fundamental resource for the creation
of entanglement. We argue on the similar spirit that quantum coherence is the
fundamental resource when it comes to the creation of magic. This unifies the
two strands of modern development in quantum technology under the common
underpinning of existence of quantum superposition, quantified by the coherence
in quantum theory. We also attempt to obtain magic monotones inspired from
coherence monotones and vice versa. We further study the interplay between
quantum coherence and magic in a qutrit system and that between quantum
entanglement and magic in a qutrit-qubit setting.

Gate-model quantum computers provide an experimentally implementable
architecture for near term quantum computations. To design a reduced quantum
circuit that can simulate a high complexity reference quantum circuit, an
optimization should be taken on the number of input quantum states, on the
unitary operations of the quantum circuit, and on the number of output
measurement rounds. Besides the optimization of the physical layout of the
hardware layer, the quantum computer should also solve difficult computational
problems very efficiently. To yield a desired output system, a particular
objective function associated with the computational problem fed into the
quantum computer should be maximized. The reduced gate structure should be able
to produce the maximized value of the objective function. These parallel
requirements must be satisfied simultaneously, which makes the optimization
difficult. Here, we demonstrate a method for designing quantum circuits for
gate-model quantum computers and define the Quantum Triple Annealing
Minimization (QTAM) algorithm. The aim of QTAM is to determine an optimal
reduced topology for the quantum circuits in the hardware layer at the
maximization of the objective function of an arbitrary computational problem.

It is often said that quantum and classical randomness are of different
nature, the former being ontological and the latter epistemological. However,
so far the question of "What is quantum in quantum randomness", i.e. what is
the impact of quantization and discreteness on the nature of randomness,
remains to answer. In a first part, we explicit the differences between quantum
and classical randomness within a recently proposed ontology for quantum
mechanics based on contextual objectivity. In this view, quantum randomness is
the result of contextuality and quantization. We show that this approach
strongly impacts the purposes of quantum theory as well as its areas of
application. In particular, it challenges current programs inspired by
classical reductionism, aiming at the emergence of the classical world from a
large number of quantum systems. In a second part, we analyze quantum physics
and thermodynamics as theories of randomness, unveiling their mutual
influences. We finally consider new technological applications of quantum
randomness opened in the emerging field of quantum thermodynamics.

Quantum computers are available to use over the cloud, but the recent
explosion of quantum software platforms can be overwhelming for those deciding
on which to use. In this paper, we provide a current picture of the rapidly
evolving quantum computing landscape by comparing four software
platforms---Forest (pyQuil), Qiskit, ProjectQ, and the Quantum Developer Kit
(Q\#)---that enable researchers to use real and simulated quantum devices. Our
analysis covers requirements and installation, language syntax through example
programs, library support, and quantum simulator capabilities for each
platform. For platforms that have quantum computer support, we compare
hardware, quantum assembly languages, and quantum compilers. We conclude by
covering features of each and briefly mentioning other quantum computing
software packages.

Space-time quantum contributions to the classical Einstein equations of
General Relativity are determined. The theoretical background is provided by
the non-perturbative theory of manifestly-covariant quantum gravity and the
trajectory-based representation of the related quantum wave equation in terms
of the Generalized Lagrangian path formalism. To reach the target an extended
functional setting is introduced, permitting the treatment of a non-stationary
background metric tensor allowed to depend on both space-time coordinates and a
suitably-defined invariant proper-time parameter. Based on the Hamiltonian
representation of the corresponding quantum hydrodynamic equations occurring in
such a context, the quantum-modified Einstein field equations are obtained. As
an application, the quantum origin of the cosmological constant is
investigated. This is shown to be ascribed to the non-linear Bohm quantum
interaction of the gravitational field with itself in vacuum and to depend
generally also on the realization of the quantum probability density for the
quantum gravitational field tensor. The emerging physical picture predicts a
generally non-stationary quantum cosmological constant which originates from
fluctuations (i.e., gradients) of vacuum quantum gravitational energy density
and is consistent with the existence of quantum massive gravitons.

Low-decoherence regime plays a key role in constructing multi-particle
quantum systems and has therefore been constantly pursued in order to build
quantum simulators and quantum computers in a scalable fashion. Quantum error
correction and quantum topological computing have been proved being able to
protect quantumness but haven't been experimentally realized yet. Recently,
topological boundary states are found inherently stable and are capable of
protecting physical fields from dissipation and disorder, which inspires the
application of such a topological protection on quantum correlation. Here, we
present an experimental demonstration of topological protection of two-photon
quantum states on a photonic chip. By analyzing the quantum correlation of
photons out from the topologically nontrivial boundary state, we obtain a high
cross-correlation and a strong violation of Cauchy-Schwarz inequality up to 30
standard deviations. Our results, together with our integrated implementation,
provide an alternative way of protecting quantumness, and may inspire many more
explorations in 'quantum topological photonics', a crossover between
topological photonics and quantum information.

Entanglement is a unique resource for quantum-enhanced applications. When
employed in sensing, shared entanglement between distributed quantum sensors
enables a substantial gain in the measurement sensitivity in estimating global
parameters of the quantum sensor network. Loss incurred in the distribution of
entanglement, however, quickly dissipates the measurement-sensitivity advantage
enjoyed by the entangled quantum sensors over sensors supplied with local
quantum resources. Here, we present a viable approach to overcome the
entanglement-distribution loss and show that the measurement sensitivity
enabled by entangled quantum sensors beat that afforded by the optimum local
resource. Our approach relies on noiseless linear amplifiers (NLAs) to serve as
quantum repeaters. We show that unlike the outstanding challenge of building
quantum repeaters to suppress the repeaterless bound for quantum key
distribution, NLA-based quantum repeaters for distributed quantum sensing are
realizable by available technology. As such, distributed quantum sensing would
become the first application instance that benefits from quantum repeaters.

In this review we discuss intriguing properties of apparently classical
optical fields, that go beyond purely classical context and allow us to speak
about quantum characteristics of such fields and about their applications in
quantum technologies. We briefly define the genuinely quantum concepts of
entanglement and steering. We then move to the boarder line between classical
and quantum world introducing quantum discord, a more general concept of
quantum coherence, and finally a controversial notion of classical
entanglement. To unveil the quantum aspects of often classically perceived
systems, we focus more in detail on quantum discordant correlations between the
light modes and on nonseparability properties of optical vector fields leading
to entanglement between different degrees of freedom of a single beam. To
illustrate the aptitude of different types of correlated systems to act as
quantum or quantum-like resource, entanglement activation from discord,
high-precision measurements with classical entanglement and quantum information
tasks using intra-system correlations are discussed. The common themes behind
the versatile quantum properties of seemingly classical light are coherence,
polarization and inter and intra--mode quantum correlations.

Quantum entanglement, as the strictly non-classical phenomena, is the kernel
of quantum computing and quantum simulation, and has been widely applied
ranging from fundamental tests of quantum physics to quantum information
processing. The decoherence of quantum states restricts the capability of
building quantum simulators and quantum computers in a scalable fashion.
Meanwhile, the topological phase is found inherently capable of protecting
physical fields from unavoidable fabrication-induced disorder, which inspires
the potential application of topological protection on quantum states. Here, we
present the first experimental demonstration of topologically protected quantum
polarization entangled states on a photonic chip. The process tomography shows
that quantum entanglement can be well preserved by the boundary states even
when the chip material substantially introduces relative polarization rotation
in phase space. Our work links topology, material and quantum physics, opening
the door to wide applications of topological enhancement in genuine quantum
regime.

Quantum entanglement is a building block of the entangled quantum networks of
the quantum Internet. A fundamental problem of the quantum Internet is
entanglement distribution. Since quantum entanglement will be fundamental to
any future quantum networking scenarios, the distribution mechanism of quantum
entanglement is a critical and emerging issue in quantum networks. Here we
define the method of opportunistic entanglement distribution for the quantum
Internet. The opportunistic model defines distribution sets that are aimed to
select those quantum nodes for which the cost function picks up a local
minimum. The cost function utilizes the error patterns of the local quantum
memories and the predictability of the evolution of the entanglement
fidelities. Our method provides efficient entanglement distributing with
respect to the actual statuses of the local quantum memories of the node pairs.
The model provides an easily-applicable, moderate-complexity solution for
high-fidelity entanglement distribution in experimental quantum Internet
scenarios.

Classical machine learning theory and theory of quantum computations are
among of the most rapidly developing scientific areas in our days. In recent
years, researchers investigated if quantum computing can help to improve
classical machine learning algorithms. The quantum machine learning includes
hybrid methods that involve both classical and quantum algorithms. Quantum
approaches can be used to analyze quantum states instead of classical data. On
other side, quantum algorithms can exponentially improve classical data science
algorithm. Here, we show basic ideas of quantum machine learning. We present
several new methods that combine classical machine learning algorithms and
quantum computing methods. We demonstrate multiclass tree tensor network
algorithm, and its approbation on IBM quantum processor. Also, we introduce
neural networks approach to quantum tomography problem. Our tomography method
allows us to predict quantum state excluding noise influence. Such
classical-quantum approach can be applied in various experiments to reveal
latent dependence between input data and output measurement results.

Quantum algorithms can enhance machine learning in different aspects. Here,
we study quantum-enhanced least-square support vector machine (LS-SVM).
Firstly, a novel quantum algorithm that uses continuous variable to assist
matrix inversion is introduced to simplify the algorithm for quantum LS-SVM,
while retaining exponential speed-up. Secondly, we propose a hybrid
quantum-classical version for sparse solutions of LS-SVM. By encoding a large
dataset into a quantum state, a much smaller transformed dataset can be
extracted using quantum matrix toolbox, which is further processed in classical
SVM. We also incorporate kernel methods into the above quantum algorithms,
which uses both exponential growth Hilbert space of qubits and infinite
dimensionality of continuous variable for quantum feature maps. The quantum
LS-SVM exploits quantum properties to explore important themes for SVM such as
sparsity and kernel methods, and stresses its quantum advantages ranging from
speed-up to the potential capacity to solve classically difficult machine
learning tasks.

Quantum simulation of quantum chemistry is one of the most compelling
applications of quantum computing. It is of particular importance in areas
ranging from materials science, biochemistry and condensed matter physics.
Here, we propose a full quantum eigensolver (FQE) algorithm to calculate the
molecular ground energies and electronic structures using quantum gradient
descent. Compared to existing classical-quantum hybrid methods such as
variational quantum eigensolver (VQE), our method removes the classical
optimizer and performs all the calculations on a quantum computer with faster
convergence. The gradient descent iteration depth has a favorable complexity
that is logarithmically dependent on the system size and inverse of the
precision. Moreover, the FQE can be further simplified by exploiting
perturbation theory for the calculations of intermediate matrix elements, and
obtain results with a precision that satisfies the requirement of chemistry
application. The full quantum eigensolver can be implemented on a near-term
quantum computer. With the rapid development of quantum computing hardware, FQE
provides an efficient and powerful tool to solve quantum chemistry problems.

Gate-model quantum computers can allow quantum computations in near-term
implementations. The stabilization of an optimal quantum state of a quantum
computer is a challenge, since it requires stable quantum evolutions via a
precise calibration of the unitaries. Here, we propose a method for the
stabilization of an optimal quantum state of a quantum computer through an
arbitrary number of running sequences. The optimal state of the quantum
computer is set to maximize an objective function of an arbitrary problem fed
into the quantum computer. We also propose a procedure to classify the
stabilized quantum states of the quantum computer into stability classes. The
results are convenient for gate-model quantum computations and near-term
quantum computers.

Quantifying of quantum coherence of a given system not only plays an
important role in quantum information science but also promote our
understanding on some basic problems, such as quantum phase transition.
Conventional quantum coherence measurements, such as $l_1$ norm of coherence
and relative entropy of coherence, has been widely used to study quantum phase
transition, which usually are basis-dependent. The recent quantum version of
the Jensen-Shannon divergence meet all the requirements of a good coherence
measure. It is not only a metric but also can be basis-independent. Here, based
on the quantum renormalization group method we propose an analysis on the
critical behavior of two types Ising systems when distribution of quantum
coherence. We directly obtain the trade-off relation, critical phenomena,
singular behavior, and scaling behavior for both quantum block spin system.
Furthermore, the monogamy relation in the multipartite system is also studied
in detail. These new result expand the result that quantum coherence can
decompose into various contributions as well as enlarge the applications in
using basis-independent quantum coherence to reflect quantum critical
phenomena.

Repeated quantum game theory addresses long term relations among players who
choose quantum strategies. In the conventional quantum game theory, single
round quantum games or at most finitely repeated games have been widely
studied, however less is known for infinitely repeated quantum games.
Investigating infinitely repeated games is crucial since finitely repeated
games do not much differ from single round games. In this work we establish the
concept of general repeated quantum games and show the Quantum Folk Theorem,
which claims that by iterating a game one can find an equilibrium strategy of
the game and receive reward that is not obtained by a Nash equilibrium of the
corresponding single round quantum game. A significant difference between
repeated quantum prisoner's dilemma and repeated classical prisoner's dilemma
is that the classical Pareto optimal solution is not always an equilibrium of
the repeated quantum game when entanglement is sufficiently strong. When
entanglement is sufficiently strong and reward is small, mutual cooperation
cannot be an equilibrium of the repeated quantum game. In addition we present
several concrete equilibrium strategies of the repeated quantum prisoner's
dilemma.

We show that there is genuine quantum chaos despite that quantum dynamics is
linear. This is revealed by introducing a physical distance between two quantum
states. Qualitatively different from existing distances for quantum states, for
example, the Fubini-Study distance, the physical distance between two mutually
orthogonal quantum states can be very small. As a result, two quantum states,
which are initially very close by physical distance, can diverge from each
other during the ensuing quantum dynamical evolution. We are able to use
physical distance to define quantum Lyaponov exponent and quantum chaos
measure. The latter leads to quantum analogue of the classical Poincar\'e
section, which maps out the regions where quantum dynamics is regular and the
regions where quantum dynamics is chaotic. Three different systems, kicked
rotor, three-site Bose-Hubbard model, and spin-1/2 XXZ model, are used to
illustrate our results.

This study presents a quantum circuit for estimating the pi value using
arithmetic circuits and by quantum amplitude estimation. We review two types of
quantum multipliers and propose quantum squaring circuits based on the
multiplier as basic arithmetic circuits required for performing quantum
computations. The squarer realized by a quantum adder with the gate size of $
O(n) $ requires $ O(n^2) $ gates and at least one ancillary qubits, while that
realized by using quantum Fourier transform (QFT) requires $ O(n^3) $ gates
without ancillary qubit. The proposed quantum circuit to estimate pi is based
on the Monte Carlo method, quantum amplitude estimation, and quantum squarer.
By applying the quantum squarer using QFT, the circuit was implemented in $ 4n
+ 1 $ qubits at $ 2^{2n} $ sampling. The proposed method was demonstrated using
a quantum computer simulator with $ n $ being varied from 2 to 6, and the
obtained result was compared with the one obtained by performing a classical
calculation.

We study the quantum manifestations of homogeneous and inhomogeneous
oscillation suppression states in coupled identical quantum oscillators. We
consider quantum van der Pol oscillators coupled via weighted mean-field
diffusive coupling and using the formalism of open quantum system we show that
depending upon the coupling and the density of mean-field, two types of quantum
amplitude death occurs, namely squeezed and nonsqueezed quantum amplitude
death. Surprisingly, we find that the inhomogeneous oscillation suppression
state (or the oscillation death state) does not occur in the quantum
oscillators in the classical limit. However, in the deep quantum regime we
discover an oscillation death-like state which is manifested in the phase space
through the symmetry-breaking bifurcation of Wigner function. Our results also
hint towards the possibility of the transition from quantum amplitude death to
oscillation death state through the "quantum" Turing-type bifurcation. We
believe that the observation of quantum oscillation death state will deepen our
knowledge of symmetry-breaking dynamics in the quantum domain.

Quantum sensing, using quantum properties of sensors, can enhance resolution,
precision, and sensitivity of imaging, spectroscopy, and detection. An
intriguing question is: Can the quantum nature (quantumness) of sensors and
targets be exploited to enable schemes that are not possible for classical
probes or classical targets? Here we show that measurement of the quantum
correlations of a quantum target indeed allows for sensing schemes that have no
classical counterparts. As a concrete example, in case where the second-order
classical correlation of a quantum target could be totally concealed by
non-stationary classical noise, the higher-order quantum correlations can
single out a quantum target from the classical noise background, regardless of
the spectrum, statistics, or intensity of the noise. Hence a
classical-noise-free sensing scheme is proposed. This finding suggests that the
quantumness of sensors and targets is still to be explored to realize the full
potential of quantum sensing. New opportunities include sensitivity beyond
classical approaches, non-classical correlations as a new approach to quantum
many-body physics, loophole-free tests of the quantum foundation, et cetera.

We present an open-source computer program written in Python language for
quantum measurement and related issues. In our program, quantum states and
operators, including quantum gates, can be developed into a quantum-object
function represented by a matrix. Build into the program are several
measurement schemes, including von Neumann measurement and weak measurement.
Various numerical simulation methods are used to mimic the real experiment
results. We first provide an overview of the program structure and then discuss
the numerical simulation of quantum measurement. We illustrate the program's
performance via quantum state tomography and quantum metrology. The program is
built in a general language of quantum physics and thus is widely adaptable to
various physical platforms, such as quantum optics, ion traps, superconducting
circuit devices, and others. It is also ideal to use in classroom guidance with
simulation and visualization of various quantum systems.

Ant colony optimization (ACO) is a commonly used meta-heuristic to solve
complex combinatorial optimization problems like traveling salesman problem
(TSP), vehicle routing problem (VRP), etc. However, classical ACO algorithms
provide better optimal solutions but do not reduce computation time overhead to
a significant extent. Algorithmic speed-up can be achieved by using parallelism
offered by quantum computing. Existing quantum algorithms to solve ACO are
either quantum-inspired classical algorithms or hybrid quantum-classical
algorithms. Since all these algorithms need the intervention of classical
computing, leveraging the true potential of quantum computing on real quantum
hardware remains a challenge. This paper's main contribution is to propose a
fully quantum algorithm to solve ACO, enhancing the quantum information
processing toolbox in the fault-tolerant quantum computing (FTQC) era. We have
Solved the Single Source Single Destination (SSSD) shortest-path problem using
our proposed adaptive quantum circuit for representing dynamic pheromone
updating strategy in real IBMQ devices. Our quantum ACO technique can be
further used as a quantum ORACLE to solve complex optimization problems in a
fully quantum setup with significant speed up upon the availability of more
qubits.

To realize the Quantum Internet, quantum communications require pre-shared
entanglement among quantum nodes. However, both the generation and the
distribution of the maximally-entangled quantum states are inherently
contaminated by quantum decoherence. Conventionally, the quantum decoherence is
mitigated by performing the consecutive steps of quantum entanglement
distillation followed by quantum teleportation. However, this conventional
approach imposes a long delay. To circumvent this impediment, we propose a
novel quantum communication scheme relying on realistic noisy pre-shared
entanglement, which eliminates the sequential steps imposing delay in the
standard approach. More precisely, our proposed scheme can be viewed as a
direct quantum communication scheme capable of improving the quantum bit error
ratio (QBER) of the logical qubits despite relying on realistic noisy
pre-shared entanglement. Our performance analysis shows that the proposed
scheme offers competitive QBER, yield, and goodput compared to the existing
state-of-the-art quantum communication schemes, despite requiring fewer quantum
gates.

In this paper, we will obtain quantum work for a quantum scale five
dimensional Myers-Perry black hole. Unlike heat represented by Hawking
radiation, the quantum work is represented by a unitary information preserving
process, and becomes important for black holes only at small quantum scales. It
will be observed that at such short distances, the quantum work will be
corrected by non-perturbative quantum gravitational corrections. We will use
the Jarzynski equality to obtain this quantum work modified by non-perturbative
quantum gravitational corrections. These non-perturbative corrections will also
modify the stability of a quantum Myers-Perry black hole. We will define a
quantum corrected information geometry by incorporating the non-perturbative
quantum corrections in the information geometry of a Myers-Perry black hole. We
will use several different quantum corrected effective information metrics to
analyze the stability of a quantum Myers-Perry black hole.

Quantum machine learning is an emerging field at the intersection of machine
learning and quantum computing. Classical cross entropy plays a central role in
machine learning. We define its quantum generalization, the quantum cross
entropy, prove its lower bounds, and investigate its relation to quantum
fidelity. In the classical case, minimizing cross entropy is equivalent to
maximizing likelihood. In the quantum case, when the quantum cross entropy is
constructed from quantum data undisturbed by quantum measurements, this
relation holds. Classical cross entropy is equal to negative log-likelihood.
When we obtain quantum cross entropy through empirical density matrix based on
measurement outcomes, the quantum cross entropy is lower-bounded by negative
log-likelihood. These two different scenarios illustrate the information loss
when making quantum measurements. We conclude that to achieve the goal of full
quantum machine learning, it is crucial to utilize the deferred measurement
principle.

Quantum machine learning algorithms, the extensions of machine learning to
quantum regimes, are believed to be more powerful as they leverage the power of
quantum properties. Quantum machine learning methods have been employed to
solve quantum many-body systems and have demonstrated accurate electronic
structure calculations of lattice models, molecular systems, and recently
periodic systems. A hybrid approach using restricted Boltzmann machines and a
quantum algorithm to obtain the probability distribution that can be optimized
classically is a promising method due to its efficiency and ease of
implementation. Here we implement the benchmark test of the hybrid quantum
machine learning on the IBM-Q quantum computer to calculate the electronic
structure of typical 2-dimensional crystal structures: hexagonal-Boron Nitride
and graphene. The band structures of these systems calculated using the hybrid
quantum machine learning are in good agreement with those obtained by the
conventional electronic structure calculation. This benchmark result implies
that the hybrid quantum machine learning, empowered by quantum computers, could
provide a new way of calculating the electronic structures of quantum many-body
systems.

Quantum simulation on emerging quantum hardware is a topic of intense
interest. While many studies focus on computing ground state properties or
simulating unitary dynamics of closed systems, open quantum systems are an
interesting target of study owing to their ubiquity and rich physical behavior.
However, their non-unitary dynamics are also not natural to simulate on digital
quantum devices. Here, we report algorithms for the digital quantum simulation
of the dynamics of open quantum systems governed by a Lindblad equation using
adaptations of the quantum imaginary time evolution (QITE) algorithm. We
demonstrate the algorithms on IBM Quantum's hardware with simulations of the
spontaneous emission of a two level system and the dissipative transverse field
Ising model. Our work advances efforts to simulate the dynamics of open quantum
systems on quantum hardware.

Bornological quantum groups were introduced by Voigt in order to generalize
the theory of algebraic quantum groups in the sense of van Daele. In particular
the class of bornological quantum groups contains all classical locally compact
groups. In this paper we prove that a bornological quantum group gives rise to
a locally compact quantum group, in a similar way to Kustermans and van Daele's
result for algebraic quantum groups. We show that the bornological quantum
groups, although more general than the algebraic ones, share most of their nice
properties. We also argue that bornological quantum groups, when they occur as
dense subalgebras of locally compact quantum groups, are useful tools for
studying locally compact quantum groups. For instance, we show that the simple
definition of a bornological closed quantum subgroup yields a closed subgroup
of the locally compact quantum group in the sense of Vaes or Wooronowicz.

Quantum algorithms can be realized in the form of a quantum circuit. To map
quantum circuit for specific quantum algorithm to quantum hardware, qubit
mapping is an imperative technique based on the qubit topology. Due to the
neighbourhood constraint of qubit topology, the implementation of quantum
algorithm rightly, is essential for moving information around in a quantum
computer. Swapping of qubits using SWAP gate moves the quantum state between
two qubits and solves the neighbourhood constraint of qubit topology. Though,
one needs to decompose the SWAP gate into three CNOT gates to implement SWAP
gate efficiently, but unwillingly quantum cost with respect to gate count and
depth increases. In this paper, a new formalism of moving quantum states
without using SWAP operation is introduced for the first time to the best of
our knowledge. Moving quantum states through qubits have been attained with the
adoption of temporary intermediate qudit states. This introduction of
intermediate qudit states has exhibited a three times reduction in quantum cost
with respect to gate count and approximately two times reduction in respect to
circuit depth compared to the state-of-the-art approach of SWAP gate insertion.
Further, the proposed approach is generalized to any dimensional quantum
system.

Quantum simulation represents the most promising quantum application to
demonstrate quantum advantage on near-term noisy intermediate-scale quantum
(NISQ) computers, yet available quantum simulation algorithms are prone to
errors and thus difficult to be realized. Herein, we propose a novel scheme to
utilize intrinsic gate errors of NISQ devices to enable controllable simulation
of open quantum system dynamics without ancillary qubits or explicit bath
engineering, thus turning unwanted quantum noises into useful quantum
resources. Specifically, we simulate energy transfer process in a
photosynthetic dimer system on IBM-Q cloud. By employing designed
decoherence-inducing gates, we show that quantum dissipative dynamics can be
simulated efficiently across coherent-to-incoherent regimes with results
comparable to those of the numerically-exact classical method. Moreover, we
demonstrate a calibration routine that enables consistent and predictive
simulations of open-quantum system dynamics in the intermediate coupling
regime. This work provides a new direction for quantum advantage in the NISQ
era.

Quantum speed limit time defines the limit on the minimum time required for a
quantum system to evolve between two states. Investigation of bounds on speed
limit time of quantum system under non-unitary evolution is of fundamental
interest, as it reveals interesting connections to quantum (non-)Markovianity.
Here, we discuss the characteristics of quantum speed limit time as a function
of quantum memory, quantified as the deviation from temporal self-similarity of
quantum dynamical maps for CP-divisible as well as indivisible maps, and show
that the presence of quantum memory can speed up quantum evolution. This
demonstrates the enhancement of the speed of quantum evolution in the presence
of quantum memory for a wider class of channels than indicated by the
CP-indivisibility criterion.

The unique and often-weird properties of quantum mechanics allow an
information carrier to propagate through multiple trajectories of quantum
channels simultaneously. This ultimately leads us to quantum trajectories with
an indefinite causal order of quantum channels. It has been shown that
indefinite causal order enables the violation of bottleneck capacity, which
bounds the amount of the transferable classical and quantum information through
a classical trajectory with a well-defined causal order of quantum channels. In
this treatise, we investigate this beneficial property in the realm of both
entanglement-assisted classical and quantum communications. To this aim, we
derive closed-form capacity expressions of entanglement-assisted classical and
quantum communication for arbitrary quantum Pauli channels over classical and
quantum trajectories. We show that by exploiting the indefinite causal order of
quantum channels, we obtain capacity gains over classical trajectory as well as
the violation of bottleneck capacity for various practical scenarios.
Furthermore, we determine the operating region where entanglement-assisted
communication over quantum trajectory obtains capacity gain against classical
trajectory and where the entanglement-assisted communication over quantum
trajectory violates the bottleneck capacity.

Motivated by recent progress in quantum technologies and in particular
quantum software, research and industrial communities have been trying to
discover new applications of quantum algorithms such as quantum optimization
and machine learning. Regardless of which hardware platform these novel
algorithms operate on, whether it is adiabatic or gate based, from theoretical
point of view, they are performing drastically better than their classical
counterparts. Two promising areas of quantum algorithms quantum machine
learning and quantum optimization. These are based on performing matrix
operations using quantum states and operation, in order to speed up data
analysis where quantum computing can efficiently work with high dimensional
vectors. Motivated by that, quantum inspired algorithms (e.g. for
recommendation systems and principal component analysis) are developed to cope
with high dimensionality using probabilistic techniques that are inspire from
quantum computing. In this paper we review recent progress in the area of
quantum inspired algorithms for low rank matrix approximation. We further
explore the possibility of using parametrized complexity for such algorithms to
refine practical complexity analysis. Finally, we conjecture that quantum
inspired algorithms that use low rank approximation and also sample and query
technique for input representations are Fixed Parameter Tractable (FPT).

Active quantum error correction is a central ingredient to achieve robust
quantum processors. In this paper we investigate the potential of quantum
machine learning for quantum error correction in a quantum memory.
Specifically, we demonstrate how quantum neural networks, in the form of
quantum autoencoders, can be trained to learn optimal strategies for active
detection and correction of errors, including spatially correlated
computational errors as well as qubit losses. We highlight that the denoising
capabilities of quantum autoencoders are not limited to the protection of
specific states but extend to the entire logical codespace. We also show that
quantum neural networks can be used to discover new logical encodings that are
optimally adapted to the underlying noise. Moreover, we find that, even in the
presence of moderate noise in the quantum autoencoders themselves, they may
still be successfully used to perform beneficial quantum error correction and
thereby extend the lifetime of a logical qubit.

Quantum processes with indefinite causal structure emerge when we wonder
which are the most general evolutions, allowed by quantum theory, of a set of
local systems which are not assumed to be in any particular causal order. These
processes can be described within the framework of higher-order quantum theory
which, starting from considering maps from quantum transformations to quantum
transformations, recursively constructs a hierarchy of quantum maps of
increasingly higher order. In this work, we develop a formalism for quantum
computation with indefinite causal structures; namely, we characterize the
computational structure of higher order quantum maps. Taking an axiomatic
approach, the rules of this computation are identified as the most general
compositions of higher order maps which are compatible with the mathematical
structure of quantum theory. We provide a mathematical characterization of the
admissible composition for arbitrary higher order quantum maps. We prove that
these rules, which have a computational and information-theoretic nature, are
determined by the more physical notion of the signalling relations between the
quantum systems of the higher order quantum maps.

Quantum teleportation is a very helpful information-theoretic protocol that
allows to transfer an unknown arbitrary quantum state from one location to
another without having to transmit the quantum system through the intermediate
region. Quantum states, quantum channels, and indefinite causal structures are
all examples of quantum causal structures that not only enable advanced quantum
information processing functions, but can also model causal structures in
nonclassical spacetimes. In this letter, we develop quantum teleportation of
arbitrary quantum causal structures, as formalized by the process matrix
framework. Instead of teleporting all the physical degrees of freedom that
implement the causal structure, the central idea is to just teleport the inputs
to and outputs from the operations of agents. The communication of outcomes of
Bell state measurements, which is necessary for deterministic quantum
teleportation, is not possible for all causal structures that one might wish to
investigate. To avoid this problem, we propose partially and fully
post-selected teleportation protocols. We prove that our partially
post-selected teleportation protocol is compatible with all quantum causal
structures, including those that involve indefinite causal order.

Quantum statistical queries provide a theoretical framework for investigating
the computational power of a learner with limited quantum resources. This model
is particularly relevant in the current context, where available quantum
devices are subject to severe noise and have limited quantum memory. On the
other hand, the framework of quantum differential privacy demonstrates that
noise can, in some cases, benefit the computation, enhancing robustness and
statistical security. In this work, we establish an equivalence between quantum
statistical queries and quantum differential privacy in the local model,
extending a celebrated classical result to the quantum setting. Furthermore, we
derive strong data processing inequalities for the quantum relative entropy
under local differential privacy and apply this result to the task of
asymmetric hypothesis testing with restricted measurements. Finally, we
consider the task of quantum multi-party computation under local differential
privacy. As a proof of principle, we demonstrate that the parity function is
efficiently learnable in this model, whereas the corresponding classical task
requires exponentially many samples.

Using the properties of quantum superposition, we propose a quantum
classification algorithm to efficiently perform multi-class classification
tasks, where the training data are loaded into parameterized operators which
are applied to the basis of the quantum state in quantum circuit composed by
\emph{sample register} and \emph{label register}, and the parameters of quantum
gates are optimized by a hybrid quantum-classical method, which is composed of
a trainable quantum circuit and a gradient-based classical optimizer. After
several quantum-to-class repetitions, the quantum state is optimal that the
state in \emph{sample register} is the same as that in \emph{label register}.
%A structure of loading data many times is performed as a quantum version of
neural network to improve the expression ability of quantum circuit. For a
classification task of $L$-class, the analysis shows that the space and time
complexity of the quantum circuit are $O(L*logL)$ and $O(logL)$, respectively.
The numerical simulation results of 2-class task and 5-class task show that the
proposed algorithm has a higher classification accuracy, faster convergence and
higher expression ability. The classification accuracy and the speed of
converging can also be improved by increasing the number times of applying
multi-qubit controlled operators on the quantum circuit, especially for
multiple classes classification.

Random quantum sampling, a task to sample bit-strings from a random quantum
circuit, is considered one of suitable benchmark tasks to demonstrate the
outperformance of quantum computers even with noisy qubits. Recently, random
quantum sampling was performed on the Sycamore quantum processor with 53 qubits
[Nature 574, 505 (2019)] and on the Zuchongzhi quantum processor with 56 qubits
[Phys. Rev. Lett. 127, 180501 (2021)]. Here, we analyze and compare statistical
properties of the outputs of random quantum sampling by Sycamore and
Zuchongzhi. Using the Marchenko-Pastur law and the Wasssertein distances, we
find that quantum random sampling of Zuchongzhi is more closer to classical
uniform random sampling than those of Sycamore. Some Zuchongzhi's bit-strings
pass the random number tests while both Sycamore and Zuchongzhi show similar
patterns in heatmaps of bit-strings. It is shown that statistical properties of
both random quantum samples change little as the depth of random quantum
circuits increases. Our findings raise a question about computational
reliability of noisy quantum processors that could produce statistically
different outputs for the same random quantum sampling task.

Quantum communication networks (QCNs) utilize quantum mechanics for secure
information transmission, but the reliance on fragile and expensive photonic
quantum resources renders QCN resource optimization challenging. Unlike prior
QCN works that relied on blindly compressing direct quantum embeddings of
classical data, this letter proposes a novel quantum semantic communications
(QSC) framework exploiting advancements in quantum machine learning and quantum
semantic representations to extracts and embed only the relevant information
from classical data into minimal high-dimensional quantum states that are
accurately communicated over quantum channels with quantum communication and
semantic fidelity measures. Simulation results indicate that, compared to
semantic-agnostic QCN schemes, the proposed framework achieves approximately
50-75% reduction in quantum communication resources needed, while achieving a
higher quantum semantic fidelity.

Large-scale quantum networks with thousands of nodes require scalable network
protocols and physical hardware to realize. In this work, we introduce packet
switching as a new paradigm for quantum data transmission in both future and
near-term quantum networks. We propose a classical-quantum data frame structure
and explore methods of frame generation and processing. Further, we present
conceptual designs for a quantum reconfigurable optical add-drop multiplexer to
realize the proposed transmission scheme. Packet switching allows for a
universal design for a next generation Internet where classical and quantum
data share the same network protocols and infrastructure. In this new quantum
networking paradigm, entanglement distribution, as with quantum key
distribution, is an application built on top of the quantum network rather than
as a network designed especially for those purposes. For analysis of the
network model, we simulate the feasibility of quantum packet switching for some
preliminary models of quantum key and entanglement distribution. Finally, we
discuss how our model can be integrated with other network models toward a
realization of a quantum Internet.

Quantum walks contribute significantly for developing quantum algorithms and
quantum simulations. Here, we introduce a first of its kind one-dimensional
quantum walk in the $d$-dimensional quantum domain, where $d>2$ and show its
equivalence for circuit realization in an arbitrary finite-dimensional quantum
logic for utilizing the advantage of larger state space, which helps to reduce
the run-time of the quantum walks as compared to the conventional binary
quantum systems. We provide efficient quantum circuits for the implementation
of discrete-time quantum walks (DTQW) in one-dimensional position space in any
finite-dimensional quantum system using an appropriate logical mapping of the
position space on which a walker evolves onto the multi-qudit states. With
example circuits for various qudit state spaces, we also explore scalability in
terms of $n$-qudit $d$-ary quantum systems. Further, the extension of
one-dimensional DTQW to $d$-dimensional DTQW using $2d$-dimensional coin space
on $d$-dimensional lattice has been studied, where $d>=2$. Thereafter, the
circuit design for the implementation of scalable $d$-dimensional DTQW in
$d$-ary quantum systems has been portrayed. Lastly, we exhibit the circuit
design for the implementation of DTQW using different coins on various
search-spaces.

Machine learning is considered to be one of the most promising applications
of quantum computing. Therefore, the search for quantum advantage of the
quantum analogues of machine learning models is a key research goal. Here, we
show that variational quantum classifiers and support vector machines with
quantum kernels can solve a classification problem based on the $k$-Forrelation
problem, which is known to be PromiseBQP-complete. Because the PromiseBQP
complexity class includes all Bounded-Error Quantum Polynomial-Time (BQP)
decision problems, our results imply that there exists a feature map and a
quantum kernel that make variational quantum classifiers and quantum kernel
support vector machines efficient solvers for any BQP problem. Hence, this work
implies that their feature map and quantum kernel, respectively, can be
designed to have a quantum advantage for any classification problem that cannot
be classically solved in polynomial time but contrariwise by a quantum
computer.

Current technologies in quantum-based communications bring a new integration
of quantum data with classical data for hybrid processing. However, the
frameworks of these technologies are restricted to a single classical or
quantum task, which limits their flexibility in near-term applications. We
propose a quantum reservoir processor to harness quantum dynamics in
computational tasks requiring both classical and quantum inputs. This analog
processor comprises a network of quantum dots in which quantum data is incident
to the network and classical data is encoded via a coherent field exciting the
network. We perform a multitasking application of quantum tomography and
nonlinear equalization of classical channels. Interestingly, the tomography can
be performed in a closed-loop manner via the feedback control of classical
data. Therefore, if the classical input comes from a dynamical system,
embedding this system in a closed loop enables hybrid processing even if access
to the external classical input is interrupted. Finally, we demonstrate
preparing quantum depolarizing channels as a novel quantum machine learning
technique for quantum data processing.

This paper shows how to construct quantum entanglement states of n qubits
based on a self-stabilizing token ring algorithm. The entangled states can be
applied to the fields of the quantum network, quantum Internet, distributed
quantum computing, and quantum cloud. To the best of our knowledge, this is the
first attempt to construct quantum entanglement based on the self-stabilizing
algorithm. By the quantum circuit implementation based on the IBM Quantum
Experience platform, it is demonstrated that the construction indeed can
achieve specific n qubit entangled states, which in turn can be used to
circulate a token in a quantum network or quantum Internet for building a
distributed quantum computing system (DQCS). The built DQCS is fault-tolerant
in the sense that it can tolerate transient faults such as occasional errors of
entangled quantum states.

In this article we employ a model open quantum system consisting of two-level
atomic systems coupled to Lorentzian photonic cavities, as an instantiation of
a quantum physical reservoir computer. We then deployed the quantum reservoir
computing approach to an archetypal machine learning problem of image
recognition. We contrast the effectiveness of the quantum physical reservoir
computer against a conventional approach using neural network of the similar
architecture with the quantum physical reservoir computer layer removed.
Remarkably, as the data set size is increased the quantum physical reservoir
computer quickly starts out perform the conventional neural network.
Furthermore, quantum physical reservoir computer provides superior
effectiveness against number of training epochs at a set data set size and
outperformed the neural network approach at every epoch number sampled.
Finally, we have deployed the quantum physical reservoir computer approach to
explore the quantum problem associated with the dynamics of open quantum
systems in which an atomic system ensemble interacts with a structured photonic
reservoir associated with a photonic band gap material. Our results demonstrate
that the quantum physical reservoir computer is equally effective in generating
useful representations for quantum problems, even with limited training data
size.

Quantum coherence, quantum entanglement and quantum nonlocality are important
resources in quantum information precessing. However, decoherence happens when
a quantum system interacts with the external environments. We study the
dynamical evolution of the three-qubit GHZ-like states in non-inertial frame
when one and/or two qubits undergo decoherence. Under the amplitude damping
channel we show that the quantum decoherence and the Unruh effect may have
quite different influences on the initial state. Moreover, the genuine
tripartite entanglement and the quantum coherence may suffer sudden death
during the evolution. The quantum coherence is most resistent to the quantum
decoherence and the Unruh effect, then comes the quantum entanglement and the
quantum nonlocality which is most fragile among the three. The results provide
a new research perspective for relativistic quantum informatics.

Variational quantum algorithms (VQAs) are considered as one of the most
promising candidates for achieving quantum advantages on quantum devices in the
noisy intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ) era. They have been developed for
numerous applications such as image processing and solving linear systems of
equations. The application of VQAs can be greatly enlarged if users with
limited quantum capabilities can run them on remote powerful quantum computers.
But the private data of clients may be leaked to quantum servers in such a
quantum cloud model. To solve the problem, a novel quantum homomorphic
encryption (QHE) scheme which is client-friendly and suitable for VQAs is
constructed for quantum servers to calculate encrypted data. Then delegated
VQAs are proposed based on the given QHE scheme, where the server can train the
ansatz circuit using the client's data even without knowing the real input and
the output of the client. Furthermore, a delegated variational quantum
classifier to identify handwritten digit images is given as a specific example
of delegated VQAs and simulated on the cloud platform of Original Quantum to
show its feasibility.

Teleporting energy to remote locations is new challenge for quantum
information science and technology. Developing a method for transferring local
energy in laboratory systems to remote locations will enable non-trivial energy
flows in quantum networks. From the perspective of quantum information
engineering, we propose a method for distributing local energy to a large
number of remote nodes using hyperbolic geometry. Hyperbolic networks are
suitable for energy allocation in large quantum networks since the number of
nodes grows exponentially. To realise long-range quantum energy teleportation,
we propose a hybrid method of quantum state telepotation and quantum energy
teleportation. By transmitting local quantum information through quantum
teleportation and performing conditional operations on that information,
quantum energy teleportation can theoretically be realized independent of
geographical distance. The method we present will provide new insights into new
applications of future large-scale quantum networks and potential applications
of quantum physics to information engineering.

Surpassing the standard quantum limit and even reaching the Heisenberg limit
using quantum entanglement, represents the Holy Grail of quantum metrology.
However, quantum entanglement is a valuable resource that does not come without
a price. The exceptional time overhead for the preparation of large-scale
entangled states raises disconcerting concerns about whether the Heisenberg
limit is fundamentally achievable. Here we find a universal speed limit set by
the Lieb-Robinson light cone for the quantum Fisher information growth to
characterize the metrological potential of quantum resource states during their
preparation. Our main result establishes a strong precision limit of quantum
metrology accounting for the complexity of many-body quantum resource state
preparation and reveals a fundamental constraint for reaching the Heisenberg
limit in a generic many-body lattice system with bounded one-site energy. It
enables us to identify the essential features of quantum many-body systems that
are crucial for achieving the quantum advantage of quantum metrology, and
brings an interesting connection between many-body quantum dynamics and quantum
metrology.

Quantum Random Access Optimizer (QRAO) is a quantum-relaxation based
optimization algorithm proposed by Fuller et al. that utilizes Quantum Random
Access Code (QRAC) to encode multiple variables of binary optimization in a
single qubit. Differing from standard quantum optimizers such as QAOA, it
utilizes the eigenstates of local quantum Hamiltonians that are not diagonal in
the computational basis. There are indications that quantum entanglement may
not be needed to solve binary optimization problems with standard quantum
optimizers because their maximal eigenstates of diagonal Hamiltonians include
classical states. In this study, while quantumness does not always improve the
performance of quantum relaxations, we observed that there exist some instances
in which quantum relaxation succeeds to find optimal solutions with the help of
quantumness. Our results suggest that QRAO not only can scale the instances of
binary optimization problems solvable with limited quantum computers but also
can benefit from quantum entanglement.

Quantum computing is moving beyond its early stage and seeking for commercial
applications in chemical and biomedical sciences. In the current noisy
intermediate-scale quantum computing era, quantum resource is too scarce to
support these explorations. Therefore, it is valuable to emulate quantum
computing on classical computers for developing quantum algorithms and
validating quantum hardware. However, existing simulators mostly suffer from
the memory bottleneck so developing the approaches for large-scale quantum
chemistry calculations remains challenging. Here we demonstrate a
high-performance and massively parallel variational quantum eigensolver (VQE)
simulator based on matrix product states, combined with embedding theory for
solving large-scale quantum computing emulation for quantum chemistry on HPC
platforms. We apply this method to study the torsional barrier of ethane and
the quantification of the protein-ligand interactions. Our largest simulation
reaches $1000$ qubits, and a performance of $216.9$ PFLOPS is achieved on a new
Sunway supercomputer, which sets the state-of-the-art for quantum computing
emulation for quantum chemistry

Visualizations have played a crucial role in helping quantum computing users
explore quantum states in various quantum computing applications. Among them,
Bloch Sphere is the widely-used visualization for showing quantum states, which
leverages angles to represent quantum amplitudes. However, it cannot support
the visualization of quantum entanglement and superposition, the two essential
properties of quantum computing. To address this issue, we propose VENUS, a
novel visualization for quantum state representation. By explicitly correlating
2D geometric shapes based on the math foundation of quantum computing
characteristics, VENUS effectively represents quantum amplitudes of both the
single qubit and two qubits for quantum entanglement. Also, we use multiple
coordinated semicircles to naturally encode probability distribution, making
the quantum superposition intuitive to analyze. We conducted two well-designed
case studies and an in-depth expert interview to evaluate the usefulness and
effectiveness of VENUS. The result shows that VENUS can effectively facilitate
the exploration of quantum states for the single qubit and two qubits.

Most currently used cryptographic tools for protecting data are based on
certain computational assumptions, which makes them vulnerable with respect to
technological and algorithmic developments, such as quantum computing. One
existing option to counter this potential threat is quantum key distribution,
whose security is based on the laws of quantum physics. Quantum key
distribution is secure against unforeseen technological developments. A second
approach is post-quantum cryptography, which is a set of cryptographic
primitives that are believed to be secure even against attacks with both
classical and quantum computing technologies. From this perspective, this study
reviews recent progress in the deployment of the quantum-secured infrastructure
based on quantum key distribution, post-quantum cryptography, and their
combinations. Various directions in the further development of the full-stack
quantum-secured infrastructure are also indicated. Distributed applications,
such as blockchains and distributed ledgers, are also discussed.

Quantum computing is tipped to lead the future of global technological
progress. However, the obstacles related to quantum software development are an
actual challenge to overcome. In particular, there is a discrepant lack of
trained and skilled workforce to implement new quantum software on the recent
quantum hardware. In this scenario, this work presents a didactic
implementation of the quantum search algorithm in Atos Quantum Assembly
Language (AQASM). In addition, we present the creation of a virtual quantum
processor whose configurable architecture allows the analysis of induced
quantum noise effects on the quantum algorithms. The codes are available
throughout the manuscript so that readers, even those with little scientific
computing experience, can replicate them and apply the methods discussed in
this article to solve their own quantum computing projects. The presented
results are consistent with theoretical predictions and demonstrate that AQASM
and myQLM are powerful tools for teaching quantum computing and building,
implementing, and simulating quantum hardware.

Quantum state tomography (QST) is the process of reconstructing the state of
a quantum system (mathematically described as a density matrix) through a
series of different measurements, which can be solved by learning a
parameterized function to translate experimentally measured statistics into
physical density matrices. However, the specific structure of quantum
measurements for characterizing a quantum state has been neglected in previous
work. In this paper, we explore the similarity between highly structured
sentences in natural language and intrinsically structured measurements in QST.
To fully leverage the intrinsic quantum characteristics involved in QST, we
design a quantum-aware transformer (QAT) model to capture the complex
relationship between measured frequencies and density matrices. In particular,
we query quantum operators in the architecture to facilitate informative
representations of quantum data and integrate the Bures distance into the loss
function to evaluate quantum state fidelity, thereby enabling the
reconstruction of quantum states from measured data with high fidelity.
Extensive simulations and experiments (on IBM quantum computers) demonstrate
the superiority of the QAT in reconstructing quantum states with favorable
robustness against experimental noise.

With sub-threshold quantum error correction on quantum hardware still out of
reach, quantum error mitigation methods are currently deemed an attractive
option for implementing certain applications on near-term noisy quantum
devices. One such application is quantum routing - the ability to map an
incoming quantum signal into a superposition of paths. In this work, we use a
7-qubit IBM quantum device to experimentally deploy two promising quantum error
mitigation methods, Zero-Noise Extrapolation (ZNE) and Probabilistic Error
Cancellation (PEC), in the context of quantum routing. Importantly, beyond
investigating the improved performance of quantum routing via ZNE and PEC
separately, we also investigate the routing performance provided by the
concatenation of these two error-mitigation methods. Our experimental results
demonstrate that such concatenation leads a very significant performance
improvement relative to implementation with no error mitigation. Indeed, an
almost perfect performance in terms of fidelity of the output entangled paths
is found. These new results reveal that with concatenated quantum
error-mitigation embedded, useful quantum routing becomes feasible on current
devices without the need for quantum error correction - opening up a potential
implementation pathway to other applications that utilize a superposition of
communication links.

Based on $d$-dimensional quantum full homomorphic encryption, an efficient
and secure quantum network coding protocol is proposed in this paper. First, a
quantum full homomorphic encryption protocol is constructed utilizing
$d$-dimensional universal quantum gates. On this basis, an efficient quantum
network coding protocol is proposed. In the protocol, two source nodes encrypt
their respective prepared quantum states with the quantum full homomorphic
encryption protocol. The two intermediate nodes successively perform
homomorphic evaluation of the received quantum states. Finally, the two sink
nodes recover the quantum states transmitted by the two source nodes in the
butterfly network depending on their measurement results. The performance
analysis shows that the proposed quantum network coding protocol is correct and
resistant to attacks launched by dishonest intermediate nodes and external
eavesdroppers. Compared to related protocols, the proposed protocol not only
enables to transfer information in $d$-dimensional quantum system, but also
requires only 1 quantum gate and a key of length 2 in the encryption phase,
which makes the protocol has higher efficiency.

With the rapid advent of quantum computing, hybrid quantum-classical machine
learning has shown promising computational advantages in many key fields.
Quantum reinforcement learning, as one of the most challenging tasks, has
recently demonstrated its ability to solve standard benchmark environments with
formally provable theoretical advantages over classical counterparts. However,
despite the progress of quantum processors and the emergence of quantum
computing clouds in the noisy intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ) era, algorithms
based on parameterized quantum circuits (PQCs) are rarely conducted on NISQ
devices. In this work, we take the first step towards executing benchmark
quantum reinforcement problems on various real devices equipped with at most
136 qubits on BAQIS Quafu quantum computing cloud. The experimental results
demonstrate that the Reinforcement Learning (RL) agents are capable of
achieving goals that are slightly relaxed both during the training and
inference stages. Moreover, we meticulously design hardware-efficient PQC
architectures in the quantum model using a multi-objective evolutionary
algorithm and develop a learning algorithm that is adaptable to Quafu. We hope
that the Quafu-RL be a guiding example to show how to realize machine learning
task by taking advantage of quantum computers on the quantum cloud platform.

Quantum autoencoder is a quantum neural network model for compressing
information stored in quantum states. However, one needs to process information
stored in quantum circuits for many tasks in the emerging quantum information
technology. In this work, generalizing the ideas of classical and quantum
autoencoder, we introduce the model of Quantum Circuit AutoEncoder (QCAE) to
compress and encode information within quantum circuits. We provide a
comprehensive protocol for QCAE and design a variational quantum algorithm,
varQCAE, for its implementation. We theoretically analyze this model by
deriving conditions for lossless compression and establishing both upper and
lower bounds on its recovery fidelity. Finally, we apply varQCAE to three
practical tasks and numerical results show that it can effectively (1) compress
the information within quantum circuits, (2) detect anomalies in quantum
circuits, and (3) mitigate the depolarizing noise in quantum devices. This
suggests that our algorithm is potentially applicable to other information
processing tasks for quantum circuits.

Building on the theory of quantum posets, we introduce a non-commutative
version of suplattices, i.e., complete lattices whose morphisms are
supremum-preserving maps, which form a step towards a new notion of quantum
topological spaces. We show that the theory of these quantum suplattices
resembles the classical theory: the opposite quantum poset of a quantum
suplattice is again a quantum suplattice, and quantum suplattices arise as
algebras of a non-commutative version of the monad of downward-closed subsets
of a poset. The existence of this monad is proved by introducing a
non-commutative generalization of monotone relations between quantum posets,
which form a compact closed category. Moreover, we introduce a non-commutative
generalization of Galois connections and we prove that an upper Galois adjoint
of a monotone map between quantum suplattices exists if and only if the map is
a morphism of quantum suplattices. Finally, we prove a quantum version of the
Knaster-Tarski fixpoint theorem: the quantum set of fixpoints of a monotone
endomap on a quantum suplattice form a quantum suplattice.

Learning complex quantum processes is a central challenge in many areas of
quantum computing and quantum machine learning, with applications in quantum
benchmarking, cryptanalysis, and variational quantum algorithms. This paper
introduces the first learning framework for studying quantum process learning
within the Quantum Statistical Query (QSQ) model, providing the first formal
definition of statistical queries to quantum processes (QPSQs). The framework
allows us to propose an efficient QPSQ learner for arbitrary quantum processes
accompanied by a provable performance guarantee. We also provide numerical
simulations to demonstrate the efficacy of this algorithm. In our new
framework, we prove exponential query complexity lower bounds for learning
unitary 2-designs, and a doubly exponential lower bound for learning
haar-random unitaries. The practical relevance of this framework is exemplified
through application in cryptography, highlighting vulnerabilities of a large
class of Classical-Readout Quantum Physical Unclonable Functions (CR-QPUFs),
addressing an important open question in the field of quantum hardware
security. This work marks a significant step towards understanding the
learnability of quantum processes and shedding light on their security
implications.

Quantum computing is a fascinating interdisciplinary research field that
promises to revolutionize computing by efficiently solving previously
intractable problems. Recent years have seen tremendous progress on both the
experimental realization of quantum computing devices as well as the
development and implementation of quantum algorithms. Yet, realizing
computational advantages of quantum computers in practice remains a widely open
problem due to numerous fundamental challenges. Interestingly, many of these
challenges are connected to performance, robustness, scalability, optimization,
or feedback, all of which are central concepts in control theory. This paper
provides a tutorial introduction to quantum computing from the perspective of
control theory. We introduce the mathematical framework of quantum algorithms
ranging from basic elements including quantum bits and quantum gates to more
advanced concepts such as variational quantum algorithms and quantum errors.
The tutorial only requires basic knowledge of linear algebra and, in
particular, no prior exposure to quantum physics. Our main goal is to equip
readers with the mathematical basics required to understand and possibly solve
(control-related) problems in quantum computing. In particular, beyond the
tutorial introduction, we provide a list of research challenges in the field of
quantum computing and discuss their connections to control.

In recent years, quantum computing has evolved as an exciting frontier, with
the development of numerous algorithms dedicated to constructing quantum
circuits that adeptly represent quantum many-body states. However, this domain
remains in its early stages and requires further refinement to understand
better the effective construction of highly-entangled quantum states within
quantum circuits. Here, we demonstrate that quantum many-body states can be
universally represented using a quantum circuit comprising multi-qubit gates.
Furthermore, we evaluate the efficiency of a quantum circuit constructed with
two-qubit gates in quench dynamics for the transverse-field Ising model. In
this specific model, despite the initial state being classical without
entanglement, it undergoes long-time evolution, eventually leading to a
highly-entangled quantum state. Our results reveal that a diamond-shaped
quantum circuit, designed to approximate the multi-qubit gate-based quantum
circuit, remarkably excels in accurately representing the long-time dynamics of
the system. Moreover, the diamond-shaped circuit follows the volume law
behavior in entanglement entropy, offering a significant advantage over
alternative quantum circuit constructions employing two-qubit gates.

Convex sets of quantum states and processes play a central role in quantum
theory and quantum information. Many important examples of convex sets in
quantum theory are spectrahedra, that is, sets of positive operators subject to
affine constraints. These examples include sets of quantum states with given
expectation values of some observables of interest, sets of multipartite
quantum states with given marginals, sets of quantum measurements, channels,
and multitime quantum processes, as well as sets of higher-order quantum maps
and quantum causal structures. This contribution provides a characterisation of
the extreme points of general spectrahedra, and bounds on the ranks of the
corresponding operators. The general results are applied to several special
cases, and are used to retrieve classic results such as Choi's characterisation
of the extreme quantum channels, Parhasarathy's characterisation of the extreme
quantum states with given marginals, and the quantum version of Birkhoff's
theorem for qubit unital channels. Finally, we propose a notion of positive
operator valued measures (POVMs) with general affine constraints for their
normalisation, and we characterise the extremal POVMs.

Quantum programs are notoriously difficult to code and verify due to
unintuitive quantum knowledge associated with quantum programming. Automated
tools relieving the tedium and errors associated with low-level quantum details
would hence be highly desirable. In this paper, we initiate the study of
program synthesis for quantum unitary programs that recursively define a family
of unitary circuits for different input sizes, which are widely used in
existing quantum programming languages. Specifically, we present QSynth, the
first quantum program synthesis framework, including a new inductive quantum
programming language, its specification, a sound logic for reasoning, and an
encoding of the reasoning procedure into SMT instances. By leveraging existing
SMT solvers, QSynth successfully synthesizes ten quantum unitary programs
including quantum adder circuits, quantum eigenvalue inversion circuits and
Quantum Fourier Transformation, which can be readily transpiled to executable
programs on major quantum platforms, e.g., Q#, IBM Qiskit, and AWS Braket.

Quantum Internet signifies a remarkable advancement in communication
technology, harnessing the principles of quantum entanglement and superposition
to facilitate unparalleled levels of security and efficient computations.
Quantum communication can be achieved through the utilization of quantum
entanglement. Through the exchange of entangled pairs between two entities,
quantum communication becomes feasible, enabled by the process of quantum
teleportation. Given the lossy nature of the channels and the exponential
decoherence of the transmitted photons, a set of intermediate nodes can serve
as quantum repeaters to perform entanglement swapping and directly entangle two
distant nodes. Such quantum repeaters may be malicious and by setting up
malicious entanglements, intermediate nodes can jeopardize the confidentiality
of the quantum information exchanged between the two communication nodes.
Hence, this paper proposes a quantum identity authentication protocol that
protects quantum networks from malicious entanglements. Unlike the existing
protocols, the proposed quantum authentication protocol does not require
periodic refreshments of the shared secret keys. Simulation results demonstrate
that the proposed protocol can detect malicious entanglements with a 100%
probability after an average of 4 authentication rounds.

Quantum computing not only holds the potential to solve long-standing
problems in quantum physics, but also to offer speed-ups across a broad
spectrum of other fields. However, due to the noise and the limited scale of
current quantum computers, may prominent quantum algorithms are currently
infeasible to run for problem sizes of practical interest. This doctoral thesis
develops two main techniques to reduce the quantum computational resource
requirements, with the goal of scaling up application sizes on current quantum
processors. The first approach is based on stochastic approximations of
computationally costly quantities, such as quantum circuit gradients or the
quantum geometric tensor (QGT). The second method takes a different perspective
on the QGT, leading to a potentially more efficient description of time
evolution on current quantum computers. While the main focus of application for
our algorithms is the simulation of quantum systems, the developed subroutines
can further be utilized in the fields of optimization or machine learning. Our
algorithms are benchmarked on a range of representative models, such as Ising
or Heisenberg spin models, both in numerical simulations and experiments on the
hardware. In combination with error mitigation techniques, the latter is scaled
up to 27 qubits; into a regime that variational quantum algorithms are
challenging to scale to on noisy quantum computers without our algorithms.

Quantum computing has gained considerable attention, especially after the
arrival of the Noisy Intermediate-Scale Quantum (NISQ) era. Quantum processors
and cloud services have been made world-wide increasingly available.
Unfortunately, programs on existing quantum processors are often executed in
series, and the workload could be heavy to the processor. Typically, one has to
wait for hours or even longer to obtain the result of a single quantum program
on public quantum cloud due to long queue time. In fact, as the scale grows,
the qubit utilization rate of the serial execution mode will further diminish,
causing the waste of quantum resources. In this paper, to our best knowledge
for the first time, the Quantum Program Scheduling Problem (QPSP) is formulated
and introduced to improve the utility efficiency of quantum resources.
Specifically, a quantum program scheduling method concerning the circuit width,
number of measurement shots, and submission time of quantum programs is
proposed to reduce the execution latency. We conduct extensive experiments on a
simulated Qiskit noise model, as well as on the Xiaohong (from QuantumCTek)
superconducting quantum processor. Numerical results show the effectiveness in
both QPU time and turnaround time.

The standard approach to universal fault-tolerant quantum computing is to
develop a general purpose quantum error correction mechanism that can implement
a universal set of logical gates fault-tolerantly. Given such a scheme, any
quantum algorithm can be realized fault-tolerantly by composing the relevant
logical gates from this set. However, we know that quantum computers provide a
significant quantum advantage only for specific quantum algorithms. Hence, a
universal quantum computer can likely gain from compiling such specific
algorithms using tailored quantum error correction schemes. In this work, we
take the first steps towards such algorithm-tailored quantum fault-tolerance.
We consider Trotter circuits in quantum simulation, which is an important
application of quantum computing. We develop a solve-and-stitch algorithm to
systematically synthesize physical realizations of Clifford Trotter circuits on
the well-known $[\![ n,n-2,2 ]\!]$ error-detecting code family. Our analysis
shows that this family implements Trotter circuits with optimal depth, thereby
serving as an illuminating example of tailored quantum error correction. We
achieve fault-tolerance for these circuits using flag gadgets, which add
minimal overhead. The solve-and-stitch algorithm has the potential to scale
beyond this specific example and hence provide a principled approach to
tailored fault-tolerance in quantum computing.

Quantum algorithms based on quantum kernel methods have been investigated
previously [1]. A quantum advantage is derived from the fact that it is
possible to construct a family of datasets for which, only quantum processing
can recognise the intrinsic labelling patterns, while for classical computers
the dataset looks like noise. This is due to the algorithm leveraging inherent
efficiencies in the computation of logarithms in a cyclic group. The discrete
log problem.is a well-known advantage of quantum vs classical computation:
where it is possible to generate all the members of the group using a single
mathematical operation. Kernel methods are a powerful and popular technique in
classical Machine Learning. The use of a quantum feature space that can only be
calculated efficiently on a quantum computer potentially allows for deriving a
quantum advantage. In this paper, we intend to first describe the application
of such a kernel method to a Quantum version of the classical Support Vector
Machine (SVM) algorithm to identify conditions under which, a quantum advantage
is realised. A data dependent projected quantum kernel was shown to provide
significant advantage over classical kernels. Further, we present results of
investigations and ideas pertaining to extending the use of quantum kernels as
a feature extraction layer in a Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) that is a
widely used architecture in deep-learning applications.

Quantum coherence and quantum correlations are of fundamental and practical
significance for the development of quantum mechanics.They are also
cornerstones of quantum computation and quantum communication theory. Searching
physically meaningful and mathematically rigorous quantifiers of them are
long-standing concerns of the community of quantum information science, and
various faithful measures have been introduced so far. We review in this paper
the measures of discordlike quantum correlations for bipartite and multipartite
systems, the measures of quantum coherence for any single quantum system, and
their relationship in different settings. Our aim is to provide a full review
about the resource theory of quantum coherence, including its application in
many-body systems, and the discordlike quantum correlations which were defined
based on the various distance measures of states. We discuss the interrelations
between quantum coherence and quantum correlations established in an
operational way, and the fundamental characteristics of quantum coherence such
as their complementarity under different basis sets, their duality with path
information of an interference experiment, their distillation and dilution
under different operations, and some new viewpoints of the superiority of the
quantum algorithms from the perspective of quantum coherence. Additionally, we
review properties of geometric quantum correlations and quantum coherence under
noisy quantum channels. Finally, the main progresses for the study of quantum
correlations and quantum coherence in the relativistic settings are reviewed.
All these results provide an overview for the conceptual implications and basic
connections of quantum coherence, quantum correlations, and their potential
applications in various related subjects of physics.

Near-term quantum computers have been built as intermediate-scale quantum
devices and are fragile against quantum noise effects, namely, NISQ devices.
Traditional quantum-error-correcting codes are not implemented on such devices
and to perform quantum computation in good accuracy with these machines we need
to develop alternative approaches for mitigating quantum computational errors.
In this work, we propose quantum error mitigation (QEM) scheme for quantum
computational errors which occur due to couplings with environments during gate
operations, i.e., decoherence. To establish our QEM scheme, first we estimate
the quantum noise effects on single-qubit states and represent them as groups
of quantum circuits, namely, quantum-noise-effect circuit groups. Then our QEM
scheme is conducted by subtracting expectation values generated by the
quantum-noise-effect circuit groups from that obtained by the quantum circuits
for the quantum algorithms under consideration. As a result, the quantum noise
effects are reduced, and we obtain approximately the ideal expectation values
via the quantum-noise-effect circuit groups and the numbers of elementary
quantum circuits composing them scale polynomial with respect to the products
of the depths of quantum algorithms and the numbers of register bits. To
numerically demonstrate the validity of our QEM scheme, we run noisy quantum
simulations of qubits under amplitude damping effects for four types of quantum
algorithms. Furthermore, we implement our QEM scheme on IBM Q Experience
processors and examine its efficacy. Consequently, the validity of our scheme
is verified via both the quantum simulations and the quantum computations on
the real quantum devices.

As was well known, in classical computation, Turing machines, circuits,
multi-stack machines, and multi-counter machines are equivalent, that is, they
can simulate each other in polynomial time. In quantum computation, Yao [11]
first proved that for any quantum Turing machines $M$, there exists quantum
Boolean circuit $(n,t)$-simulating $M$, where $n$ denotes the length of input
strings, and $t$ is the number of move steps before machine stopping. However,
the simulations of quantum Turing machines by quantum multi-stack machines and
quantum multi-counter machines have not been considered, and quantum
multi-stack machines have not been established, either. Though quantum counter
machines were dealt with by Kravtsev [6] and Yamasaki {\it et al.} [10], in
which the machines count with $0,\pm 1$ only, we sense that it is difficult to
simulate quantum Turing machines in terms of this fashion of quantum computing
devices, and we therefore prove that the quantum multi-counter machines allowed
to count with $0,\pm 1,\pm 2,...,\pm n$ for some $n>1$ can efficiently simulate
quantum Turing machines.
  Therefore, our mail goals are to establish quantum multi-stack machines and
quantum multi-counter machines with counts $0,\pm 1,\pm 2,...,\pm n$ and $n>1$,
and particularly to simulate quantum Turing machines by these quantum computing
devices.

Can we reduce Quantum Field Theory (QFT) to a quantum computation? Can
physics be simulated by a quantum computer? Do we believe that a quantum field
is ultimately made of a numerable set of quantum systems that are unitarily
interacting? A positive answer to these questions corresponds to substituting
QFT with a theory of quantum cellular automata (QCA), and the present work is
examining this hypothesis. These investigations are part of a large research
program on a "quantum-digitalization" of physics, with Quantum Theory as a
special theory of information, and Physics as emergent from the same
quantum-information processing. A QCA-based QFT has tremendous potential
advantages compared to QFT, being quantum "ab-initio" and free from the
problems plaguing QFT due to the continuum hypothesis. Here I will show how
dynamics emerges from the quantum processing, how the QCA can reproduce the
Dirac-field phenomenology at large scales, and the kind of departures from QFT
that that should be expected at a Planck-scale discreteness. I will introduce
the notions of linear field quantum automaton and local-matrix quantum
automaton, in terms of which I will provide the solution to the Feynman's
problem about the possibility of simulating a Fermi field with a quantum
computer.

The quantum internet holds promise for performing quantum communication, such
as quantum teleportation and quantum key distribution (QKD), freely between any
parties all over the globe. Such a future quantum network, depending on the
communication distance of the requesting parties, necessitates to invoke
several classes of optical quantum communication such as point-to-point
communication protocols, intercity QKD protocols and quantum repeater
protocols. Recently, Takeoka, Guha and Wilde (TGW) have presented a fundamental
rate-loss tradeoff on quantum communication capacity and secret key agreement
capacity of any lossy channel assisted by unlimited forward and backward
classical communication [Nat. Commun. 5, 5235 (2014)]. However, this bound is
applicable only to the simplest class of quantum communication, i.e., the
point-to-point communication protocols, and it has thus remained open to grasp
the potential of a `worldwide' quantum network. Here we generalize the TGW
bound to be applicable to any type of two-party quantum communication over the
quantum internet, including other indispensable but much more intricate classes
of quantum communication, intercity QKD protocols and quantum repeater
protocols. We also show that there is essentially no scaling gap between our
bound and the quantum communication efficiencies of known protocols. Therefore,
our result, corresponding to a fundamental and practical limitation for the
quantum internet, will contribute to design an efficient quantum internet in
the future.

Quantum computers are hypothetical devices, based on quantum physics, that
would enable us to perform certain computations hundreds of orders of magnitude
faster than digital computers. This feature is coined as "quantum supremacy"
and one aspect or another of such quantum computational supremacy might be
brought about in experiments in the near future: by implementing quantum
error-correction, systems of non-interacting bosons, exotic new phases of
matter called anyons, quantum annealing, or in various other ways.
  A main concern regarding the feasibility of quantum computers is that quantum
systems are inherently noisy: we cannot accurately control them, and we cannot
accurately describe them. We will describe an optimistic hypothesis of quantum
noise that would allow quantum computing and a pessimistic hypothesis that
wouldn't. The quantum computer puzzle is deciding between these two hypotheses.
  Here is a brief summary of the author's pessimistic point of view as
explained in the paper: understanding quantum computers in the presence of
noise requires consideration of behavior at different scales. In the small
scale, standard models of noise from the mid-90s are suitable, and quantum
evolutions and states described by them manifest a very low-level computational
power. This small-scale behavior has far-reaching consequences for the behavior
of noisy quantum systems at larger scales. On the one hand, it does not allow
reaching the starting points for quantum fault tolerance and quantum supremacy,
making them both impossible at all scales. On the other hand, it leads to novel
implicit ways for modeling noise at larger scales and to various predictions on
the behavior of noisy quantum systems.

We introduce a simulator for a quantum internet with the specific goal to
support software development. A quantum internet consists of local quantum
processors, which are interconnected by quantum communication channels that
enable the transmission of qubits between the different processors. While many
simulators exist for local quantum processors, there is presently no simulator
for a quantum internet tailored towards software development. Quantum internet
protocols require both classical as well as quantum information to be exchanged
between the network nodes, next to the execution of gates and measurements on a
local quantum processor. This requires quantum internet software to integrate
classical communication programming practises with novel quantum ones.
  SimulaQron is built to enable application development and explore software
engineering practises for a quantum internet. SimulaQron can be run on one or
more classical computers to simulate local quantum processors, which are
transparently connected in the background to enable the transmission of qubits
or the generation of entanglement between remote processors. Application
software can access the simulated local quantum processors to execute local
quantum instructions and measurements, but also to transmit qubits to remote
nodes in the network. SimulaQron features a modular design that performs a
distributed simulation based on any existing simulation of a quantum computer
capable of integrating with Python. Programming libraries for Python and C are
provided to facilitate application development.

Memory effects play an important role in the theory of open quantum systems.
There are two completely independent insights about memory for quantum
channels. In quantum information theory, the memory of the quantum channel is
depicted by the correlations between consecutive uses of the channel on a set
of quantum systems. In the theory of open quantum systems memory effects result
from correlations which are created during the quantum evolution. Here, we
study the quantum speed limit time for correlated quantum channel i.e. when
there exist correlation between consecutive uses of quantum channel . Quantum
speed limit time is the bound on the minimal time evolution between initial and
target states. It is apply for quantifying the maximum speed of quantum
evolution. In this work, we will consider correlated pure dephasing colored
noise as an example of unital quantum channels and correlated squeezed
generalized amplitude damping channel as an example of non-unital quantum
channels. We evaluate the quantum speed limit time for these two channel. We
find that regardless of whether the channel is unital or not, the quantum speed
limit time is increased by increasing correlation between two consecutive uses
of the channel.

The study of quantum generative models is well-motivated, not only because of
its importance in quantum machine learning and quantum chemistry but also
because of the perspective of its implementation on near-term quantum machines.
Inspired by previous studies on the adversarial training of classical and
quantum generative models, we propose the first design of quantum Wasserstein
Generative Adversarial Networks (WGANs), which has been shown to improve the
robustness and the scalability of the adversarial training of quantum
generative models even on noisy quantum hardware. Specifically, we propose a
definition of the Wasserstein semimetric between quantum data, which inherits a
few key theoretical merits of its classical counterpart. We also demonstrate
how to turn the quantum Wasserstein semimetric into a concrete design of
quantum WGANs that can be efficiently implemented on quantum machines. Our
numerical study, via classical simulation of quantum systems, shows the more
robust and scalable numerical performance of our quantum WGANs over other
quantum GAN proposals. As a surprising application, our quantum WGAN has been
used to generate a 3-qubit quantum circuit of ~50 gates that well approximates
a 3-qubit 1-d Hamiltonian simulation circuit that requires over 10k gates using
standard techniques.

Quantum hydrodynamics is a formulation of quantum mechanics based on the
probability density and flux (current) density of a quantum system. It can be
used to define trajectories which allow for a particle-based interpretation of
quantum mechanics, commonly known as Bohmian mechanics. However, quantum
hydrodynamics rests on the usual time-dependent formulation of quantum
mechanics where time appears as a parameter. This parameter describes the
correlation of the state of the quantum system with an external system -- a
clock -- which behaves according to classical mechanics. With the Exact
Factorization of a quantum system into a marginal and a conditional system,
quantum mechanics and hence quantum hydrodynamics can be generalized for
quantum clocks. In this article, the theory is developed and it is shown that
trajectories for the quantum system can still be defined, and that these
trajectories depend conditionally on the trajectory of the clock. Such
trajectories are not only interesting from a fundamental point of view, but
they can also find practical applications whenever a dynamics relative to an
external time parameter is composed of "fast" and "slow" degrees of freedom and
the interest is in the fast ones, while quantum effects of the slow ones (like
a branching of the wavepacket) cannot be neglected. As an illustration, time-
and clock-dependent trajectories are calculated for a model system of a
non-adiabatic dynamics, where an electron is the quantum system, a nucleus is
the quantum clock, and an external time parameter is provided, e.g. via an
interaction with a laser field that is not treated explicitly.

The magnificence grandeur of quantum computing lies in the inherent nature of
quantum particles to exhibit true parallelism, which can be realized by
indubitably fascinating theories of quantum physics. The possibilities opened
by quantum computation (QC) is no where analogous to any classical simulation
as quantum computers can efficiently simulate the complex dynamics of strongly
correlated inter-facial systems. But, unfolding mysteries and leading to
revolutionary breakthroughs in quantum computing are often challenged by lack
of research and development potential in developing qubits with longer
coherence interval, scaling qubit count, incorporating quantum error correction
to name a few. Putting the first footstep into explorative quantum research by
researchers and developers is also inherently ambiguous - due to lack of
definitive steps in building up a quantum enabled customized computing stack.
Difference in behavioral pattern of underlying system, early-stage noisy
device, implementation barriers and performance metric cause hindrance in full
adoption of existing classical SDLC suites for quantum product development.
This in turn, necessitates to devise systematic and cost-effective techniques
to quantum software development through a Quantum Development Life Cycle (QDLC)
model, specifying the distinguished features and functionalities of quantum
feasibility study, quantum requirement specification, quantum system design,
quantum software coding and implementation, quantum testing and quantum
software quality management.

The quantum security of lightweight block ciphers is receiving more and more
attention. However, the existing quantum attacks on lightweight block ciphers
mainly focused on the quantum exhaustive search, while the quantum dedicated
attacks combined with classical cryptanalysis methods haven't been well
studied. In this paper, we study quantum key recovery attack on SIMON block
cipher using Quantum Amplitude Amplification algorithm in Q1 model. At first,
we reanalyze the quantum circuit complexity of quantum master key exhaustive
search on SIMON block cipher. The Clifford gates count is estimated more
accurately and the T gate count is reduced. We also reduce the T-depth and
Full-depth due to some minor modifications to the circuit. Then, based on the
differential cryptanalysis on SIMON32, SIMON48 and SIMON64 given by Biryukov et
al. in FSE 2014, we give quantum round key recovery attacks on these SIMON
variants and analyze quantum circuit complexity separately. We take the quantum
attack on 19-round SIMON32/64 for an example and design the quantum circuit of
the key recovery process. The two phases of this attack could be regarded as
two QAA instances separately, and the first QAA instance consists of four
sub-QAA instances. We conclude that the encryption complexity and circuit
complexity of quantum dedicated attacks on 19-round SIMON32/64, 19-round SIMON
48 and 26-round SIMON64/128 are both lower than those of the quantum exhaustive
search on these variants separately. Our work firstly studies the quantum
dedicated attack on SIMON block cipher from the perspective of quantum circuit
complexity, which is a more fine-grained analysis of quantum dedicated attacks'
complexity.

The numerical simulation of quantum circuits is an indispensable tool for
development, verification and validation of hybrid quantum-classical algorithms
on near-term quantum co-processors. The emergence of exascale high-performance
computing (HPC) platforms presents new opportunities for pushing the boundaries
of quantum circuit simulation. We present a modernized version of the Tensor
Network Quantum Virtual Machine (TNQVM) which serves as a quantum circuit
simulation backend in the eXtreme-scale ACCelerator (XACC) framework. The new
version is based on the general purpose, scalable tensor network processing
library, ExaTN, and provides multiple configurable quantum circuit simulators
enabling either exact quantum circuit simulation via the full tensor network
contraction, or approximate quantum state representations via suitable tensor
factorizations. Upon necessity, stochastic noise modeling from real quantum
processors is incorporated into the simulations by modeling quantum channels
with Kraus tensors. By combining the portable XACC quantum programming frontend
and the scalable ExaTN numerical backend we introduce an end-to-end virtual
quantum development environment which can scale from laptops to future exascale
platforms. We report initial benchmarks of our framework which include a
demonstration of the distributed execution, incorporation of quantum
decoherence models, and simulation of the random quantum circuits used for the
certification of quantum supremacy on the Google Sycamore superconducting
architecture.

In quantum information processing quantum operations are often processed
alongside measurements which result in classical data. Due to the information
gain of classical measurement outputs non-unitary dynamical processes can take
place on the system, for which common quantum channel descriptions fail to
describe the time evolution. Quantum measurements are correctly treated by
means of so-called quantum instruments capturing both classical outputs and
post-measurement quantum states. Here we present a general recipe to
characterize quantum instruments alongside its experimental implementation and
analysis. Thereby, the full dynamics of a quantum instrument can be captured,
exhibiting details of the quantum dynamics that would be overlooked with common
tomography techniques. For illustration, we apply our characterization
technique to a quantum instrument used for the detection of qubit loss and
leakage, which was recently implemented as a building block in a quantum error
correction (QEC) experiment (Nature 585, 207-210 (2020)). Our analysis reveals
unexpected and in-depth information about the failure modes of the
implementation of the quantum instrument. We then numerically study the
implications of these experimental failure modes on QEC performance, when the
instrument is employed as a building block in QEC protocols on a logical qubit.
Our results highlight the importance of careful characterization and modelling
of failure modes in quantum instruments, as compared to simplistic
hardware-agnostic phenomenological noise models, which fail to predict the
undesired behavior of faulty quantum instruments. The presented methods and
results are directly applicable to generic quantum instruments.

Quantum gates and measurements on quantum hardware are inevitably subject to
hardware imperfections that lead to quantum errors. Mitigating such unavoidable
errors is crucial to explore the power of quantum hardware better. In this
paper, we propose a unified framework that can mitigate quantum gate and
measurement errors in computing quantum expectation values utilizing the
truncated Neumann series. The essential idea is to cancel the effect of quantum
error by approximating its inverse via linearly combining quantum errors of
different orders produced by sequential applications of the quantum devices
with carefully chosen coefficients. Remarkably, the estimation error decays
exponentially in the truncated order, and the incurred error mitigation
overhead is independent of the system size, as long as the noise resistance of
the quantum device is moderate. We numerically test this framework for
different quantum errors and find that the computation accuracy is
substantially improved. Our framework possesses several vital advantages: it
mitigates quantum gate and measurement errors in a unified manner, it neither
assumes any error structure nor requires the tomography procedure to completely
characterize the quantum errors, and most importantly, it is scalable. These
advantages empower our quantum error mitigation framework to be efficient and
practical and extend the ability of near-term quantum devices to deliver
quantum applications.

The goal of generative machine learning is to model the probability
distribution underlying a given data set. This probability distribution helps
to characterize the generation process of the data samples. While classical
generative machine learning is solely based on classical resources, generative
quantum machine learning can also employ quantum resources - such as
parameterized quantum channels and quantum operators - to learn and sample from
the probability model of interest.
  Applications of generative (quantum) models are multifaceted. The trained
model can generate new samples that are compatible with the given data and
extend the data set. Additionally, learning a model for the generation process
of a data set may provide interesting information about the corresponding
properties. With the help of quantum resources, the respective generative
models have access to functions that are difficult to evaluate with a classical
computer and may improve the performance or lead to new insights. Furthermore,
generative quantum machine learning can be applied to efficient, approximate
loading of classical data into a quantum state which may help to avoid -
potentially exponentially - expensive, exact quantum data loading.
  The aim of this doctoral thesis is to develop new generative quantum machine
learning algorithms, demonstrate their feasibility, and analyze their
performance. Additionally, we outline their potential application to efficient,
approximate quantum data loading. More specifically, we introduce a quantum
generative adversarial network and a quantum Boltzmann machine implementation,
both of which can be realized with parameterized quantum circuits. These
algorithms are compatible with first-generation quantum hardware and, thus,
enable us to study proof of concept implementations not only with numerical
quantum simulations but also real quantum hardware available today.

Quantum computing is the process of performing calculations using quantum
mechanics. This field studies the quantum behavior of certain subatomic
particles for subsequent use in performing calculations, as well as for
large-scale information processing. These capabilities can give quantum
computers an advantage in terms of computational time and cost over classical
computers. Nowadays, there are scientific challenges that are impossible to
perform by classical computation due to computational complexity or the time
the calculation would take, and quantum computation is one of the possible
answers. However, current quantum devices have not yet the necessary qubits and
are not fault-tolerant enough to achieve these goals. Nonetheless, there are
other fields like machine learning or chemistry where quantum computation could
be useful with current quantum devices. This manuscript aims to present a
Systematic Literature Review of the papers published between 2017 and 2023 to
identify, analyze and classify the different algorithms used in quantum machine
learning and their applications. Consequently, this study identified 94
articles that used quantum machine learning techniques and algorithms. The main
types of found algorithms are quantum implementations of classical machine
learning algorithms, such as support vector machines or the k-nearest neighbor
model, and classical deep learning algorithms, like quantum neural networks.
Many articles try to solve problems currently answered by classical machine
learning but using quantum devices and algorithms. Even though results are
promising, quantum machine learning is far from achieving its full potential.
An improvement in the quantum hardware is required since the existing quantum
computers lack enough quality, speed, and scale to allow quantum computing to
achieve its full potential.

The purpose of this tutorial is to give a brief introduction to linear
quantum control systems. The mathematical model of linear quantum control
systems is presented first, then some fundamental control-theoretic notions
such as stability, controllability and observability are given, which are
closely related to several important concepts in quantum information science
such as decoherence-free subsystems, quantum non-demolition variables, and
back-action evasion measurements. After that, quantum Gaussian states are
introduced, in particular, an information-theoretic uncertainty relation is
presented which often gives a better bound for mixed Gaussian states than the
well-known Heisenberg uncertainty relation. The quantum Kalman filter is
presented for quantum linear systems, which is the quantum analogy of the
Kalman filter for classical (namely, non-quantum-mechanical) linear systems.
The quantum Kalman canonical decomposition for quantum linear systems is
recorded, and its application is illustrated by means of a recent experiment.
As single- and multi-photon states are useful resources in quantum information
technology, the response of quantum linear systems to these types of input is
presented. Finally, coherent feedback control of quantum linear systems is
briefly introduced, and a recent experiment is used to demonstrate the
effectiveness of quantum linear systems and networks theory.dback control of
quantum linear systems is briefly introduced, and a recent experiment is used
to demonstrate the effectiveness of quantum linear systems and networks theory.

Quantum machine learning has proven to be a fruitful area in which to search
for potential applications of quantum computers. This is particularly true for
those available in the near term, so called noisy intermediate-scale quantum
(NISQ) devices. In this Thesis, we develop and study three quantum machine
learning applications suitable for NISQ computers, ordered in terms of
increasing complexity of data presented to them. These algorithms are
variational in nature and use parameterised quantum circuits (PQCs) as the
underlying quantum machine learning model. The first application area is
quantum classification using PQCs, where the data is classical feature vectors
and their corresponding labels. Here, we study the robustness of certain data
encoding strategies in such models against noise present in a quantum computer.
The second area is generative modelling using quantum computers, where we use
quantum circuit Born machines to learn and sample from complex probability
distributions. We discuss and present a framework for quantum advantage for
such models, propose gradient-based training methods and demonstrate these both
numerically and on the Rigetti quantum computer up to 28 qubits. For our final
application, we propose a variational algorithm in the area of approximate
quantum cloning, where the data becomes quantum in nature. For the algorithm,
we derive differentiable cost functions, prove theoretical guarantees such as
faithfulness, and incorporate state of the art methods such as quantum
architecture search. Furthermore, we demonstrate how this algorithm is useful
in discovering novel implementable attacks on quantum cryptographic protocols,
focusing on quantum coin flipping and key distribution as examples.

Quantum computers allow for direct simulation of the quantum interference and
entanglement used in modern interferometry experiments with applications
ranging from biological sensing to gravitational wave detection. Inspired by
recent developments in quantum sensing at the Laser Interferometer
Gravitational-wave Observatory (LIGO), here we present two quantum circuit
models that demonstrate the role of quantum mechanics and entanglement in
modern precision sensors. We implemented these quantum circuits on IBM quantum
processors, using a single qubit to represent independent photons traveling
through the LIGO interferometer and two entangled qubits to illustrate the
improved sensitivity that LIGO has achieved by using non-classical states of
light. The one-qubit interferometer illustrates how projection noise in the
measurement of independent photons corresponds to phase sensitivity at the
standard quantum limit. In the presence of technical noise on a real quantum
computer, this interferometer achieves the sensitivity of 11\% above the
standard quantum limit. The two-qubit interferometer demonstrates how
entanglement circumvents the limits imposed by the quantum shot noise,
achieving the phase sensitivity 17\% below the standard quantum limit. These
experiments illustrate the role that quantum mechanics plays in setting new
records for precision measurements on platforms like LIGO. The experiments are
broadly accessible, remotely executable activities that are well suited for
introducing undergraduate students to quantum computation, error propagation,
and quantum sensing on real quantum hardware.

This paper showcases a method of parametric synthesis of quantum circuits for
training perceptron neural networks. Synapse weights are found using Grover's
algorithm with a modified oracle function. The results of running these
parametrically synthesized circuits for training perceptrons of three different
topologies are described. The circuits were run on a 100-qubit IBM quantum
simulator. The synthesis of quantum circuits is carried out using quantum
synthesizer "Naginata", which was developed in the scope of this work, the
source code of which is published and further documented on GitHub. The article
describes the quantum circuit synthesis algorithm for training single-layer
perceptrons. At the moment, quantum circuits are created mainly by manually
placing logic elements on lines that symbolize quantum bits. The purpose of
creating Quantum Circuit Synthesizer "Naginata" was due to the fact that even
with a slight increase in the number of operations in a quantum algorithm,
leads to the significant increase in size of the corresponding quantum circuit.
This causes serious difficulties both in creating and debugging these quantum
circuits. The purpose of our quantum synthesizer is enabling users an
opportunity to implement quantum algorithms using higher-level commands. This
is achieved by creating generic blocks for frequently used operations such as:
the adder, multiplier, digital comparator (comparison operator), etc. Thus, the
user could implement a quantum algorithm by using these generic blocks, and the
quantum synthesizer would create a suitable circuit for this algorithm, in a
format that is supported by the chosen quantum computation environment. This
approach greatly simplifies the processes of development and debugging a
quantum algorithm.

Researchers point to four potential issues related to the popularisation of
quantum science and technology. These include a lack of explaining underlying
quantum concepts of quantum 2.0 technology, framing quantum science and
technology as spooky and enigmatic, framing quantum technology narrowly in
terms of public good and having a strong focus on quantum computing. To date,
no research has yet assessed whether these potential issues are actually
present in popular communication about quantum science. In this content
analysis, we have examined the presence of these potential issues in 501 TEDx
talks with quantum science and technology content. Results show that while most
experts (70%) explained at least one underlying quantum concept (superposition,
entanglement or contextuality) of quantum 2.0 technology, only 28% of the
non-experts did so. Secondly, the spooky/enigmatic frame was present in about a
quarter of the talks. Thirdly, a narrow public good frame was found,
predominantly by highlighting the benefits of quantum science and technology
(found in over 6 times more talks than risks). Finally, the main focus was on
quantum computing at the expense of other quantum technologies. In conclusion,
the proposed frames are indeed found in TEDx talks, there is indeed a focus on
quantum computing, but at least experts explain underlying quantum concepts
often.

The quantum internet is envisioned as the ultimate stage of the quantum
revolution, which surpasses its classical counterpart in various aspects, such
as the efficiency of data transmission, the security of network services, and
the capability of information processing. Given its disruptive impact on the
national security and the digital economy, a global race to build scalable
quantum networks has already begun. With the joint effort of national
governments, industrial participants and research institutes, the development
of quantum networks has advanced rapidly in recent years, bringing the first
primitive quantum networks within reach. In this work, we aim to provide an
up-to-date review of the field of quantum networks from both theoretical and
experimental perspectives, contributing to a better understanding of the
building blocks required for the establishment of a global quantum internet. We
also introduce a newly developed quantum network toolkit to facilitate the
exploration and evaluation of innovative ideas. Particularly, it provides dual
quantum computing engines, supporting simulations in both the quantum circuit
and measurement-based models. It also includes a compilation scheme for mapping
quantum network protocols onto quantum circuits, enabling their emulations on
real-world quantum hardware devices. We showcase the power of this toolkit with
several featured demonstrations, including a simulation of the Micius quantum
satellite experiment, a testing of a four-layer quantum network architecture
with resource management, and a quantum emulation of the CHSH game. We hope
this work can give a better understanding of the state-of-the-art development
of quantum networks and provide the necessary tools to make further
contributions along the way.

Program implementation and simulation are essential for research in the field
of quantum algorithms. However, complex and large-scale quantum algorithms can
pose challenges for existing quantum programming languages and simulators.
Here, we present a scalable program implementation of the quantum walk on a
sparse matrix and the quantum linear solver based on the quantum walk. Our
implementation is based on a practical scenario in which the sparse matrix is
stored in the compressed-sparse-column format in quantum random access memory.
All necessary modules are implemented unitarily and are ensured to be
decomposed at the quantum gate level, including implementing a quantum binary
search and a modification of the original algorithm. The program is validated
using a highly efficient quantum circuit simulator which is based on the
register level and sparse state representation. With only a single core, we
simulate the quantum walk on a 16384-dimensional matrix with 582 qubits in 1.1
minutes per step, as well as a quantum linear solver up to 1024 dimensions and
212245 steps in 70 hours. Our work narrows the gap between the simulation of a
quantum algorithm and its classical counterparts, where the asymptotic
complexity of our quantum linear solver simulation approximates a classical
linear solver. These program implementation and simulation techniques have the
potential to expand the boundary of numerical research for large-scale quantum
algorithms, with implications for the development of error-correction-era
quantum computing solutions.

The experimental realization of quantum information systems will be difficult
due to how sensitive quantum information is to noise. Overcoming this
sensitivity is central to designing quantum networks capable of transmitting
quantum information reliably over large distances. Moreover, the ability to
characterize communication noise in quantum networks is crucial in developing
network protocols capable of overcoming the effects of noise in quantum
networks. In this context, quantum network tomography refers to the
characterization of channel noise in a quantum network through end-to-end
measurements. In this work, we propose network tomography protocols for quantum
star networks formed by quantum channels characterized by a single, non-trivial
Pauli operator. Our results further the end-to-end characterization of quantum
bit-flip star networks by introducing tomography protocols where state
distribution and measurements are designed separately. We build upon previously
proposed quantum network tomography protocols, as well as provide novel methods
for the unique characterization of bit-flip probabilities in stars. We
introduce a theoretical benchmark based on the Quantum Fisher Information
matrix to compare the efficiency of quantum network protocols. We apply our
techniques to the protocols proposed, and provide an initial analysis on the
potential benefits of entanglement for Quantum Network Tomography. Furthermore,
we simulate the proposed protocols using NetSquid to assess the convergence
properties of the estimators obtained for particular parameter regimes. Our
findings show that the efficiency of protocols depend on parameter values and
motivate the search for adaptive quantum network tomography protocols.

Quantum computing has shown tremendous promise in addressing complex
computational problems, yet its practical realization is hindered by the
limited availability of qubits for computation. Recent advancements in quantum
hardware have introduced mid-circuit measurements and resets, enabling the
reuse of measured qubits and significantly reducing the qubit requirements for
executing quantum algorithms. In this work, we present a systematic study of
dynamic quantum circuit compilation, a process that transforms static quantum
circuits into their dynamic equivalents with a reduced qubit count through
qubit-reuse. We establish the first general framework for optimizing the
dynamic circuit compilation via graph manipulation. In particular, we
completely characterize the optimal quantum circuit compilation using binary
integer programming, provide efficient algorithms for determining whether a
given quantum circuit can be reduced to a smaller circuit and present heuristic
algorithms for devising dynamic compilation schemes in general. Furthermore, we
conduct a thorough analysis of quantum circuits with practical relevance,
offering optimal compilations for well-known quantum algorithms in quantum
computation, ansatz circuits utilized in quantum machine learning, and
measurement-based quantum computation crucial for quantum networking. We also
perform a comparative analysis against state-of-the-art approaches,
demonstrating the superior performance of our methods in both structured and
random quantum circuits. Our framework lays a rigorous foundation for
comprehending dynamic quantum circuit compilation via qubit-reuse, bridging the
gap between theoretical quantum algorithms and their physical implementation on
quantum computers with limited resources.

Quantum computing offers significant speedup compared to classical computing,
which has led to a growing interest among users in learning and applying
quantum computing across various applications. However, quantum circuits, which
are fundamental for implementing quantum algorithms, can be challenging for
users to understand due to their underlying logic, such as the temporal
evolution of quantum states and the effect of quantum amplitudes on the
probability of basis quantum states. To fill this research gap, we propose
QuantumEyes, an interactive visual analytics system to enhance the
interpretability of quantum circuits through both global and local levels. For
the global-level analysis, we present three coupled visualizations to delineate
the changes of quantum states and the underlying reasons: a Probability Summary
View to overview the probability evolution of quantum states; a State Evolution
View to enable an in-depth analysis of the influence of quantum gates on the
quantum states; a Gate Explanation View to show the individual qubit states and
facilitate a better understanding of the effect of quantum gates. For the
local-level analysis, we design a novel geometrical visualization Dandelion
Chart to explicitly reveal how the quantum amplitudes affect the probability of
the quantum state. We thoroughly evaluated QuantumEyes as well as the novel
QuantumEyes integrated into it through two case studies on different types of
quantum algorithms and in-depth expert interviews with 12 domain experts. The
results demonstrate the effectiveness and usability of our approach in
enhancing the interpretability of quantum circuits.

These are the lecture notes of the master's course "Quantum Computing",
taught at Chalmers University of Technology every fall since 2020, with
participation of students from RWTH Aachen and Delft University of Technology.
The aim of this course is to provide a theoretical overview of quantum
computing, excluding specific hardware implementations. Topics covered in these
notes include quantum algorithms (such as Grover's algorithm, the quantum
Fourier transform, phase estimation, and Shor's algorithm), variational quantum
algorithms that utilise an interplay between classical and quantum computers
[such as the variational quantum eigensolver (VQE) and the quantum approximate
optimisation algorithm (QAOA), among others], quantum error correction, various
versions of quantum computing (such as measurement-based quantum computation,
adiabatic quantum computation, and the continuous-variable approach to quantum
information), the intersection of quantum computing and machine learning, and
quantum complexity theory. Lectures on these topics are compiled into 12
chapters, most of which contain a few suggested exercises at the end, and
interspersed with four tutorials, which provide practical exercises as well as
further details. At Chalmers, the course is taught in seven weeks, with three
two-hour lectures or tutorials per week. It is recommended that the students
taking the course have some previous experience with quantum physics, but not
strictly necessary.

These are exciting times for quantum physics as new quantum technologies are
expected to soon transform computing at an unprecedented level. Simultaneously
network science is flourishing proving an ideal mathematical and computational
framework to capture the complexity of large interacting systems. Here we
provide a comprehensive and timely review of the rising field of complex
quantum networks. On one side, this subject is key to harness the potential of
complex networks in order to provide design principles to boost and enhance
quantum algorithms and quantum technologies. On the other side this subject can
provide a new generation of quantum algorithms to infer significant complex
network properties. The field features fundamental research questions as
diverse as designing networks to shape Hamiltonians and their corresponding
phase diagram, taming the complexity of many-body quantum systems with network
theory, revealing how quantum physics and quantum algorithms can predict novel
network properties and phase transitions, and studying the interplay between
architecture, topology and performance in quantum communication networks. Our
review covers all of these multifaceted aspects in a self-contained
presentation aimed both at network-curious quantum physicists and at
quantum-curious network theorists. We provide a framework that unifies the
field of quantum complex networks along four main research lines:
network-generalized, quantum-applied, quantum-generalized and quantum-enhanced.
Finally we draw attention to the connections between these research lines,
which can lead to new opportunities and new discoveries at the interface
between quantum physics and network science.

Deterministic sources of quantum light (i.e. single photons or pairs of
entangled photons) are required for a whole host of applications in quantum
technology, including quantum imaging, quantum cryptography and the
long-distance transfer of quantum information in future quantum networks.
Semiconductor quantum dots are ideal candidates for solid-state quantum
emitters as these artificial atoms have large dipole moments and a quantum
confined energy level structure, enabling the realization of single photon
sources with high repetition rates and high single photon purity. Quantum dots
may also be triggered using a laser pulse for on-demand operation. The
naturally-occurring size variations in ensembles of quantum dots offers the
potential to increase the bandwidth of quantum communication systems through
wavelength-division multiplexing, but conventional laser triggering schemes
based on Rabi rotations are ineffective when applied to inequivalent emitters.
Here we report the demonstration of the simultaneous triggering of >10 quantum
dots using adiabatic rapid passage. We show that high-fidelity quantum state
inversion is possible in a system of quantum dots with a 15~meV range of
optical transition energies using a single broadband, chirped laser pulse,
laying the foundation for high-bandwidth, multiplexed quantum networks.

A set of universal quantum gates is a vital part of the theory of quantum
computing, but is absent in the developing theory of Relativistic Quantum
Information (RQI). Yet, the Unruh--DeWitt (UDW) detector formalism can be
elevated to unitary gates between qubits and quantum fields and has allowed RQI
applications in quantum Shannon theory, such as mutual information, coherent
information, and quantum capacity in field-mediated quantum channels. Recently,
experimental realizations of UDW-style qubits have been proposed in
two-dimensional quantum materials, but their value as a quantum technology,
including quantum communication and computation, is not yet clear, especially
since fields introduce many avenues for decoherence. We introduce
controlled-unitary UDW logic gates between qubit and field that are comparable
to the two-qubit CNOT gate. We then extend this formalism to demonstrate
Quantum State Transfer (QST) (two CNOT gates) and SWAP (three CNOT gates)
channels. We illustrate the performance of these quantum operation gates with
the diamond distance, a measure of distinguishability between quantum channels.
Distinguishability measures like diamond distance allow for a rigorous
comparison between field-mediated transduction through UDW detectors and local
quantum mechanical operations and so quantify the performance of UDW detectors
in quantum technological applications. Using the controlled-unitary qubit-field
interactions we define an exact form of the CNOT gate. With this technique we
also define quantum field-mediated single qubit operations associated with the
Hadamard $H$, the $S$, and $T$ gates. Thus, UDW detectors in simple settings
enable a collection of gates known to provide universal quantum computing.

Quantum computation is a promising emerging technology, and by utilizing the
principles of quantum mechanics, it is expected to achieve faster computations
than classical computers for specific problems. There are two distinct
architectures for quantum computation: gate-based quantum computers and quantum
annealing. In gate-based quantum computation, we implement a sequence of
quantum gates that manipulate qubits. This approach allows us to perform
universal quantum computation, yet they pose significant experimental
challenges for large-scale integration. On the other hand, with quantum
annealing, the solution of the optimization problem can be obtained by
preparing the ground state. Conventional quantum annealing devices with
transverse-field Ising Hamiltonian, such as those manufactured by D-Wave Inc.,
achieving around 5000 qubits, are relatively more amenable to large-scale
integration but are limited to specific computations. In this paper, we present
a practical method for implementing universal quantum computation within the
conventional quantum annealing architecture using the transverse-field Ising
Hamiltonian. Our innovative approach relies on an adiabatic transformation of
the Hamiltonian, changing from transverse fields to a ferromagnetic interaction
regime, where the ground states become degenerate. Notably, our proposal is
compatible with D-Wave devices, opening up possibilities for realizing
large-scale gate-based quantum computers. This research bridges the gap between
conventional quantum annealing and gate-based quantum computation, offering a
promising path toward the development of scalable quantum computing platforms.

I present and defend a new ontology for quantum theories (or
"interpretations" of quantum theory) called Generative Quantum Theory (GQT).
GQT postulates different sets of features, and the combination of these
different features can help generate different quantum theories. Furthermore,
this ontology makes quantum indeterminacy and determinacy play an important
explanatory role in accounting for when quantum systems whose values of their
properties are indeterminate become determinate. The process via which
determinate values arise varies between the different quantum theories.
Moreover, quantum states represent quantum properties and structures that give
rise to determinacy, and each quantum theory specifies a structure with certain
features. I will focus on the following quantum theories: GRW, the Many-Worlds
Interpretation, single-world relationalist theories such as Relational Quantum
Mechanics, Bohmian Mechanics, hybrid classical-quantum theories, and
Environmental Determinacy-based (EnD) Quantum Theory. I will argue that GQT
should be taken seriously because it provides a series of important benefits
that current widely discussed ontologies lack, namely, wavefunction realism and
primitive ontology, without some of their costs. For instance, it helps
generate quantum theories that are clearly compatible with relativistic
causality, such as EnD Quantum Theory. Also, GQT has the benefit of providing
new ways to compare and evaluate quantum theories, which may lead to
philosophical and scientific progress on these issues.

A brief review is given of the physical implementation of quantum computation
within spin systems or other two-state quantum systems. The importance of the
controlled-NOT or quantum XOR gate as the fundamental primitive operation of
quantum logic is emphasized. Recent developments in the use of quantum
entanglement to built error-robust quantum states, and the simplest protocol
for quantum error correction, are discussed.

We consider the problem of quantum and classical phase transitions in
double-layer quantum Hall systems at $\nu=1/m$ (m odd integers) from a
long-wavelength statistical mechanics viewpoint. We derive an explicit mapping
of the long-wavelength Lagrangian of the quantum Hall system into that of a
three-dimensional isotropic classical XY model whose coupling constant depends
on the quantum fluctuation in the original quantum Hall Hamiltonian. Universal
properties of the quantum phase transition at the critical layer separation are
completely determined by this mapping. The dependence of the
Kosterlitz-Thouless transition temperature on layer separation, including
quantum fluctuation effects, is approximately obtained by simple finite-size
scaling analyses.

We study quantum imaging in a triangular quantum corral that is embedded in a
superconducting host system with s-wave symmetry. We show that the corral acts
as a quantum copying machine by creating multiple images of a quantum candle.
We obtain new selection rules for the formation of quantum images that arise
from the interplay of the corral's geometry and the location of quantum
candles. In more complex corral structures, we show that quantum images can be
projected "around the corner".

We apply the notion of quantum predicate proposed by D'Hondt and Panangaden
to analyze a purely quantum language fragment which describes the quantum part
of a future quantum computer in Knill's architecture. The denotational
semantics, weakest precondition semantics, and weakest liberal precondition
semantics of this language fragment are introduced. To help reasoning about
quantum programs involving quantum loops, we extend proof rules for classical
probabilistic programs to our purely quantum programs.

This paper is a continuation of the paper [V.S.Mashkevich, gr-qc/9409010].
Indeterministic quantum gravity is a theory that unifies general relativity and
quantum theory involving indeterministic conception, i.e., quantum jumps. By
the same token the theory claims to describe all the universe.
  Spacetime is the direct product of cosmic time and space. The state of the
universe is given by metric, its derivative with respect to cosmic time, and
the number of an energy level. A quantum jump occurs at the tangency of two
levels. Equations of motion are the restricted Einstein equation (the cosmic
space part thereof) and a probability rule for the quantum jump.
  Keywords: indeterminism, quantum jumps, state vector reduction, cosmology,
cosmic spacetime

A quantum frame is defined by a material object subject to the laws of
quantum mechanics. The present paper studies the relations between quantum
frames, which in the classical case are described by elements of the Poincare'
group. The possibility of using a suitable quantum group is examined, but some
arguments are given which show that a different mathematical structure is
necessary. Some simple examples in lower dimensional spacetimes are treated.
They indicate the necessity of taking into account some "internal" degrees of
freedom of the quantum frames, that can be disregarded in a classical
treatment.

It was shown that quantum metric fluctuations smear out the singularities of
Green's functions on the light cone [1], but it does not remove other
ultraviolet divergences of quantum field theory. We have proved that the
quantum field theory in Krein space, {\it i.e.} indefinite metric quantization,
removes all divergences of quantum field theory with exception of the light
cone singularity [2,3]. In this paper, it is discussed that the combination of
quantum field theory in Krein space together with consideration of quantum
metric fluctuations, results in quantum field theory without any divergences.

Quantum fields are shown to provide an example of infinite-dimensional
quantum groups. A dictionary is established between quantum field and quantum
group concepts: the expectation value over the vacuum is the counit, Wick's
theorem is the definition of a twisted product, operator and time-ordered
products are examples of twisted products. Through this dictionary,
coquasitriangular structures are introduced in quantum field theory. These
structures are the origin of Wick's theorem and quasifree states.
Renormalization becomes the replacement of a coquasitriangular structure by a
2-coboundary. Quantum groups provide a second quantization without commutators
which can second-quantize noncommutative algebras.

We introduce an associative glueing operation $\oplus_q$ on the space of
solutions of the Quantum Yang-Baxter Equations of Hecke type. The corresponding
glueing operations for the associated quantum groups and quantum vector spaces
are also found. The former involves $2\times 2$ quantum matrices whose entries
are themselves square or rectangular quantum matrices. The corresponding
glueing operation for link-invariants is introduced and involves a state-sum
model with Boltzmann weights determined by the link invariants to be glued. The
standard $su(n)$ solution, its associated quantum matrix group, quantum space
and link-invariant arise at once by repeated glueing of the one-dimensional
case.

Here is a list of chapters:
  1 Introduction
  2 Notation and preliminaries
  Part I: Finite quantum groups
  3 2x2 Matrix quantum groups and the quantum plane
  4 Quantum enveloping algebras at a root of unity
  Part II: q-Oscillators
  5 Representations of q-oscillators at a root of unity
  6 qr-Oscillator at a root of unity
  Part III: Infinite quantum groups
  7 Quantum affine algebras
  8 Quantum affine algebras at a root of unity

This is a self-contained review on the theory of quantum group and its
applications to modern physics. A brief introduction is given to the
Yang-Baxter equation in integrable quantum field theory and lattice statistical
physics. The quantum group is primarily introduced as a systematic method for
solving the Yang-Baxter equation. Quantum group theory is presented within the
framework of quantum double through quantizing Lie bi-algebra. Both the highest
weight and the cyclic representations are investigated for the quantum group
and emphasis is laid on the new features of representations for $q$ being a
root of unity. Quantum symmetries are explored in selected topics of modern
physics.

For differential calculi over certain right coideal subalgebras of quantum
groups the notion of quantum tangent space is introduced. In generalization of
a result by Woronowicz a one to one correspondence between quantum tangent
spaces and covariant first order differential calculi is established. This
result is used to classify differential calculi over quantum Grassmann
manifolds. It turns out that up to special cases in low dimensions there exists
exactly one such calculus of classical dimension 2r(N-r).
  Keywords: Quantum groups, quantum spaces, quantum Grassmann manifolds,
differential calculus

Manin associated to a quadratic algebra (quantum space) the quantum matrix
group of its automorphisms. This Talk aims to demonstrate that Manin's
construction can be extended for quantum spaces which are non-quadratic
homogeneous algebras. Here given a regular Artin-Schelter algebra of dimension
3 we construct the quantum group of its symmetries, i.e., the Hopf algebra of
its automorphisms. For quadratic Artin-Schelter algebras these quantum groups
are contained in the the classification of the GL(3) quantum matrix groups due
to Ewen and Ogievetsky. For cubic Artin-Schelter algebras we obtain new quantum
groups which are automorphisms of cubic quantum spaces.

Quantum Zakharov equations are obtained to describe the nonlinear interaction
between quantum Langmuir waves and quantum ion-acoustic waves. These quantum
Zakharov equations are applied to two model cases, namely the four-wave
interaction and the decay instability. In the case of the four-wave
instability, sufficiently large quantum effects tend to suppress the
instability. For the decay instability, the quantum Zakharov equations lead to
results similar to those of the classical decay instability except for quantum
correction terms in the dispersion relations. Some considerations regarding the
nonlinear aspects of the quantum Zakharov equations are also offered.

A universal quasitriangular $R$--matrix for the non-standard quantum (1+1)
Poincar\'e algebra $U_ziso(1,1)$ is deduced by imposing analyticity in the
deformation parameter $z$. A family $g_\mu$ of ``quantum graded contractions"
of the algebra $U_ziso(1,1)\oplus U_{-z}iso(1,1)$ is obtained; this set of
quantum algebras contains as Hopf subalgebras with two primitive translations
quantum analogues of the two dimensional Euclidean, Poincar\'e and Galilei
algebras enlarged with dilations. Universal $R$--matrices
  for these quantum Weyl algebras and their associated quantum groups are
constructed.

A construction of the noncommutative-geometric counterparts of classical
classifying spaces is presented, for general compact matrix quantum structure
groups. A quantum analogue of the classical concept of the classifying map is
introduced and analyzed. Interrelations with the abstract algebraic theory of
quantum characteristic classes are discussed. Various non-equivalent approaches
to defining universal characteristic classes are outlined.

Usually the generators of a quantum group are assumed to be commutative with
the noncommuting coordinates of a quantum plane. We have relaxed the assumption
and investigated its consequences. Not only does a two-parameter quantum group
arise naturally, but also the formulation leads us to many probable quantum
planes associated with a quantum group. Several examples are presented.

We prove that row reducing a quantum matrix yields another quantum matrix for
the same parameter q. This means that the elements of the new matrix satisfy
the same relations as those of the original quantum matrix ring M_q(n). As a
corollary, we can prove that the image of the quantum determinant in the
abelianization of the total ring of quotients of M_q(n) is equal to the
Dieudonne determinant of the quantum matrix. A similar result is proved for the
multiparameter quantum determinant.

A version of quantum orbit method is presented for real forms of equal rank
of quantum complex simple groups. A quantum moment map is constructed, based on
the canonical isomorphism between a quantum Heisenberg algebra and an algebra
of functions on a family of quantum G-spaces. For the series $A$, we construct
some irreducible $*$-representations of $U_q{\frak g}$ which correspond to the
semi-simple dressing orbits of minimal dimension in the dual Poisson Lie group.
It is shown that some complimentary series representations correspond to some
quantum 'tunnel' G-spaces which do not have a quasi-classical analog.

We formulate quantum group Riemannian geometry as a gauge theory of quantum
differential forms. We first develop (and slightly generalise) classical
Riemannian geometry in a self-dual manner as a principal bundle frame
resolution and a dual pair of canonical forms. The role of Levi-Civita
connection is naturally generalised to connections with vanishing torsion and
cotorsion, which we introduce. We then provide the corresponding quantum group
and braided group formulations with the universal quantum differential
calculus. We also give general constructions for examples, including quantum
spheres and quantum planes.

Quantum correlations between two particles show non-classical properties
which can be used for providing secure transmission of information. We present
a quantum cryptographic system, in which users store particles in quantum
memories kept in a transmission center. Correlations between the particles
stored by two users are created upon request by projecting their product state
onto a fully entangled state. Our system allows for secure communication
between any pair of users who have particles in the same center. Unlike other
quantum cryptographic systems, it can work without quantum channels and is
suitable for building a quantum cryptographic network. We also present a
modified system with many centers.

Quantum mechanics requires the operation of quantum computers to be unitary,
and thus makes it important to have general techniques for developing fast
quantum algorithms for computing unitary transforms. A quantum routine for
computing a generalized Kronecker product is given. Applications include
re-development of the networks for computing the Walsh-Hadamard and the quantum
Fourier transform. New networks for two wavelet transforms are given. Quantum
computation of Fourier transforms for non-Abelian groups is defined. A slightly
relaxed definition is shown to simplify the analysis and the networks that
computes the transforms. Efficient networks for computing such transforms for a
class of metacyclic groups are introduced. A novel network for computing a
Fourier transform for a group used in quantum error-correction is also given.

This paper gives new foundations of quantum state reduction without appealing
to the projection postulate for the probe measurement. For this purpose, the
quantum Bayes principle is formulated as the most fundamental principle for
determining the state of a quantum system, and the joint probability
distribution for the outcomes of local successive measurements on a
noninteracting entangled system is derived without assuming the projection
postulate.

Controlling operational errors and decoherence is one of the major challenges
facing the field of quantum computation and other attempts to create specified
many-particle entangled states. The field of quantum error correction has
developed to meet this challenge. A group-theoretical structure and associated
subclass of quantum codes, the stabilizer codes, has proved particularly
fruitful in producing codes and in understanding the structure of both specific
codes and classes of codes. I will give an overview of the field of quantum
error correction and the formalism of stabilizer codes. In the context of
stabilizer codes, I will discuss a number of known codes, the capacity of a
quantum channel, bounds on quantum codes, and fault-tolerant quantum
computation.

A systematic method for simulating small-scale quantum circuits by use of
linear optical devices is presented. It relies on the representation of several
quantum bits by a single photon, and on the implementation of universal quantum
gates using simple optical components (beam splitters, phase shifters, etc.).
This suggests that the optical realization of small quantum networks is
reasonable given the present technology in quantum optics, and could be a
useful technique for testing simple quantum algorithms or error-correction
schemes. The optical circuit for quantum teleportation is presented as an
illustration.

This is an expository talk written for the Bourbaki Seminar. After a brief
introduction, Section 1 discusses in the categorical language the structure of
the classical deterministic computations. Basic notions of complexity icluding
the P/NP problem are reviewed. Section 2 introduces the notion of quantum
parallelism and explains the main issues of quantum computing. Section 3 is
devoted to four quantum subroutines: initialization, quantum computing of
classical Boolean functions, quantum Fourier transform, and Grover's search
algorithm. The central Section 4 explains Shor's factoring algorithm. Section 5
relates Kolmogorov's complexity to the spectral properties of computable
function. Appendix contributes to the prehistory of quantum computing.

Entanglement of quantum variables is usually thought to be a prerequisite for
obtaining quantum speed-ups of information processing tasks such as searching
databases. This paper presents methods for quantum search that give a speed-up
over classical methods, but that do not require entanglement. These methods
rely instead on interference to provide a speed-up. Search without entanglement
comes at a cost: although they outperform analogous classical devices, the
quantum devices that perform the search are not universal quantum computers and
require exponentially greater overhead than a quantum computer that operates
using entanglement. Quantum search without entanglement is compared to
classical search using waves.

We suggest that the framework of quantum information theory, which has been
developing rapidly in recent years due to intense activity in quantum
computation and quantum communication, is a reasonable starting point to study
non-equilibrium quantum statistical phenomena. As an application, we discuss
the non-equilibrium quantum thermodynamics of black hole formation and
evaporation.

I consider some promising future directions for quantum information theory
that could influence the development of 21st century physics. Advances in the
theory of the distinguishability of superoperators may lead to new strategies
for improving the precision of quantum-limited measurements. A better grasp of
the properties of multi-partite quantum entanglement may lead to deeper
understanding of strongly-coupled dynamics in quantum many-body systems,
quantum field theory, and quantum gravity.

This is a brief description of how to protect quantum states from dissipation
and decoherence that arise due to uncontrolled interactions with the
environment. We discuss recoherence and stabilisation of quantum states based
on two techniques known as "symmetrisation" and "quantum error correction". We
illustrate our considerations with the most popular quantum-optical model of
the system-environment interaction, commonly used to describe spontaneous
emission, and show the benefits of quantum error correction in this case.

After a brief introduction to the principles and promise of quantum
information processing, the requirements for the physical implementation of
quantum computation are discussed. These five requirements, plus two relating
to the communication of quantum information, are extensively explored and
related to the many schemes in atomic physics, quantum optics, nuclear and
electron magnetic resonance spectroscopy, superconducting electronics, and
quantum-dot physics, for achieving quantum computing.

A generalization of the results of Rasetti and Zanardi concerning avoiding
errors in quantum computers by using states preserved by evolution is
presented. The concept of the dynamical symmetry is generalized from the level
of classical Lie algebras and groups, to the level of a dynamical symmetry
based on quantum Lie algebras and quantum groups (in the sense of Woronowicz).
An intrinsic dependence of the concept of dynamical symmetry on the
differential calculus (which holds also in the classical case) is stressed. A
natural connection between quantum states invariant under a quantum group
action, and quantum states preserved by the dynamical evolution is discussed.

We introduce and analyze a quantum analogue of the Law of Excluded Gambling
Strategies of Classical Decision Theory by the definition of different kind of
quantum casinos. The necessity of keeping into account entaglement (by the way
we give a staightforward generalization of Schmidt's entanglement measure)
forces us to adopt the general algebraic language of Quantum Probability Theory
whose essential points are reviewed. The Mathematica code of two packages
simulating, respectively, classical and quantum gambling is included. The deep
link existing between the censorship of winning quantum gambling strategies and
the central notion of Quantum Algorithmic Information Theory, namely quantum
algorithmic randomness (by the way we introduce and discard the naive
noncommutative generalization of the original Kolmogorov definition), is
analyzed

By making the second quantization for the Cini Model of quantum measurement
without wave function collapse [M. Cini, Nuovo Cimento, B73 27(1983)], the
second order quantum decoherence (SOQD) is studied with a two mode boson system
interacting with an idealized apparatus composed by two quantum oscillators. In
the classical limit that the apparatus is prepared in a Fock state with a very
large quantum number, or in a coherent state with average quantum numbers large
enough, the SOQD phenomenon appears similar to the first order case of quantum
decoherence.

Three inter-related topics are discussed here. One, the Lindblad dynamics of
quantum dissipative systems; two, quantum entanglement in composite systems and
its quantification based on the Tsallis entropy; and three, robustness of
entanglement under dissipation. After a brief review of the Lindblad theory of
quantum dissipative systems and the idea of quantum entanglement in composite
quantum systems illustrated by describing the three particle systems, the
behavior of entanglement under the influence of dissipative processes is
discussed. These issues are of importance in the discussion of quantum
nanometric systems of current research.

An efficient quantum algorithm is proposed to solve in polynomial time the
parity problem, one of the hardest problems both in conventional quantum
computation and in classical computation, on NMR quantum computers. It is based
on the quantum parallelism principle in a quantum ensemble, the selective
decoherence manipulation, and the NMR phase-sensitive measurement. The quantum
circuit for the quantum algorithm is designed explicitly.

The theory of noncommutative dynamical entropy and quantum symbolic dynamics
for quantum dynamical systems is analised from the point of view of quantum
information theory. Using a general quantum dynamical system as a communication
channel one can define different classical capacities depending on the
character of resources applied for encoding and decoding procedures and on the
type of information sources. It is shown that for Bernoulli sources the
entanglement-assisted classical capacity, which is the largest one, is bounded
from above by the quantum dynamical entropy defined in terms of operational
partitions of unity. Stronger results are proved for the particular class of
quantum dynamical systems -- quantum Bernoulli shifts. Different classical
capacities are exactly computed and the entanglement-assisted one is equal to
the dynamical entropy in this case.

We use the quantum action to study the dynamics of quantum system at finite
temperature. We construct the quantum action non-perturbatively and find
temperature dependent action parameters. Here we apply the quantum action to
study quantum chaos. We present a numerical study of a classically chaotic 2-D
Hamiltonian system - harmonic oscillators with anharmonic coupling. We compare
Poincar\'e sections for the quantum action at finite temperature with those of
classical action.

The theory of quantum error correction is a cornerstone of quantum
information processing. It shows that quantum data can be protected against
decoherence effects, which otherwise would render many of the new quantum
applications practically impossible. In this paper we give a self contained
introduction to this theory and to the closely related concept of quantum
channel capacities. We show, in particular, that it is possible (using
appropriate error correcting schemes) to send a non-vanishing amount of quantum
data undisturbed (in a certain asymptotic sense) through a noisy quantum
channel T, provided the errors produced by T are small enough.

The one-way quantum computer (QCc) is a universal scheme of quantum
computation consisting only of one-qubit measurements on a particular entangled
multi-qubit state, the cluster state. The computational model underlying the
QCc is different from the quantum logic network model and it is based on
different constituents. It has no quantum register and does not consist of
quantum gates. The QCc is nevertheless quantum mechanical since it uses a
highly entangled cluster state as the central physical resource. The scheme
works by measuring quantum correlations of the universal cluster state.

A universal set of quantum gates is constructed for the recently developed
jump-error correcting quantum codes. These quantum codes are capable of
correcting errors arising from the spontaneous decay of distinguishable qubits
into statistically independent reservoirs. The proposed universal quantum gates
are constructed with the help of Heisenberg- and Ising-type Hamiltonians acting
on these physical qubits. This way it is guaranteed that the relevant error
correcting code space is not left at any time even during the application of
one of these quantum gates. The proposed entanglement gate is particularly well
suited for scalable quantum processing units whose elementary registers are
based on four-qubit systems.

By analysing probabilistic foundations of quantum theory we understood that
the so called quantum calculus of probabilities (including Born's rule) is not
the main distinguishing feature of "quantum". This calculus is just a special
variant of a contextual probabilistic calculus. In particular, we analysed the
EPR-Bohm-Bell approach by using contextual probabilistic models (e.g., the
frequency von Mises model). It is demonstrated that the EPR-Bohm-Bell
consideration are not so much about "quantum", but they are merely about
contextual. Our conjecture is that the "fundamental quantum element" is the
Schr\"odinger evolution describing the very special dependence of probabilities
on contexts. The main quantum mystery is neither the probability calculus in a
Hilbert space nor the nonncommutative (Heisenberg) representation of physical
observables, but the Schr\"odinger evolution of contextual probabilities.

This article is an introduction to quant-ph/0302092. We propose to quantify
how "quantum" a set of quantum states is. The quantumness of a set is the
worst-case difficulty of transmitting the states through a classical
communication channel. Potential applications of this measure arise in quantum
cryptography, where one might like to use an alphabet of states most sensitive
to quantum eavesdropping, and in lab demonstrations of quantum teleportation,
where it is necessary to check that entanglement has indeed been used.

Quantum error correcting code is a useful tool to combat noise in quantum
computation. It is also an important ingredient in a number of unconditionally
secure quantum key distribution schemes. Here, I am going to show that quantum
code can also be used to seal a quantum message. Specifically, every one can
still read the content of the sealed quantum message. But, any such attempt can
be detected by an authorized verifier with an exponentially close to one
probability

In this paper we introduce a quantum information theoretical model for
quantum secret sharing schemes. We show that quantum information theory
provides a unifying framework for the study of these schemes. We prove that the
information theoretical requirements for a class of quantum secret sharing
schemes reduce to only one requirement (the recoverability condition) as a
consequence of the no-cloning principle. We give also a shorter proof of the
fact that the size of the shares in a quantum secret sharing scheme must be at
least as large as the secret itself.

The standard inputs given to a quantum machine are classical binary strings.
In this view, any quantum complexity class is a collection of subsets of
$\{0,1\}^{*}$. However, a quantum machine can also accept quantum states as its
input. T. Yamakami has introduced a general framework for quantum operators and
inputs \cite{Yam02}. In this paper we present several quantum languages within
this model and by generalizing the complexity classes QMA and QCMA we analyze
the complexity of the introduced languages. We also discuss how to derive a
classical language from a given quantum language and as a result we introduce
new QCMA and QMA languages.

Teleportation of quantum gates is a critical step for implementation of
quantum networking and teleportation-based models of quantum computation. We
report an experimental demonstration of teleportation of the prototypical
quantum controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate. Assisted with linear optical manipulations,
photon entanglement produced from parametric down conversion, and coincidence
measurements, we teleport the quantum CNOT gate from acting on local qubits to
acting on remote qubits. The quality of the quantum gate teleportation is
characterized through the method of quantum process tomography, with an average
fidelity of 0.84 demonstrated for the teleported gate.

Using quantum mechanics, secure direct communication between distant parties
can be performed. Over a noisy quantum channel, quantum privacy amplification
is a necessary step to ensure the security of the message. In this paper, we
present a quantum privacy amplification scheme for quantum secure direct
communication using single photons. The quantum privacy amplification procedure
contains two control-not gates and a Hadamard gate. After the unitary gate
operations, a measurement is performed and one photon is retained. The retained
photon carries the state information of the discarded photon, and hence reduces
the information leakage. The procedure can be performed recursively so that the
information leakage can be reduced to any arbitrarily low level.

We experimentally demonstrate in NMR a quantum interferometric multi-meter
for extracting certain properties of unknown quantum states without resource to
quantum tomography. It can perform direct state determinations,
eigenvalue/eigenvector estimations, purity tests of a quantum system, as well
as the overlap of any two unknown quantum states. Using the same device, we
also demonstrate one-qubit quantum fingerprinting.

Quantum mechanical systems exhibit an inherently probabilistic nature upon
measurement. Using a quantum noise model to describe the stochastic evolution
of the open quantum system and working in parallel with classical
indeterministic control theory, we present the theory of nonlinear optimal
quantum feedback control. The resulting quantum Bellman equation is then
applied to the explicitly solvable quantum linear-quadratic-Gaussian (LQG)
problem which emphasizes many similarities with the corresponding classical
control problem.

This paper proves that several interactive proof systems are zero-knowledge
against quantum attacks. This includes a few well-known classical
zero-knowledge proof systems as well as quantum interactive proof systems for
the complexity class HVQSZK, which comprises all problems having "honest
verifier" quantum statistical zero-knowledge proofs. It is also proved that
zero-knowledge proofs for every language in NP exist that are secure against
quantum attacks, assuming the existence of quantum computationally concealing
commitment schemes. Previously no non-trivial proof systems were known to be
zero-knowledge against quantum attacks, except in restricted settings such as
the honest-verifier and common reference string models. This paper therefore
establishes for the first time that true zero-knowledge is indeed possible in
the presence of quantum information and computation.

Long-distance quantum communication via distant pairs of entangled quantum
bits (qubits) is the first step towards more secure message transmission and
distributed quantum computing. To date, the most promising proposals require
quantum repeaters to mitigate the exponential decrease in communication rate
due to optical fiber losses. However, these are exquisitely sensitive to the
lifetimes of their memory elements. We propose a multiplexing of quantum nodes
that should enable the construction of quantum networks that are largely
insensitive to the coherence times of the quantum memory elements.

We introduce ways to measure information storage in quantum systems, using a
recently introduced computation-theoretic model that accounts for measurement
effects. The first, the quantum excess entropy, quantifies the shared
information between a quantum process's past and its future. The second, the
quantum transient information, determines the difficulty with which an observer
comes to know the internal state of a quantum process through measurements. We
contrast these with von Neumann entropy and quantum entropy rate and provide a
closed-form expression for the latter for the class of deterministic quantum
processes.

The quantum threshold theorem shows that a noisy quantum computer can
accurately and efficiently simulate any ideal quantum computation provided that
noise is weakly correlated and its strength is below a critical value known as
the quantum accuracy threshold. This thesis provides a simpler and more
transparent non-inductive proof of this theorem based on the concept of level
reduction. This concept is also used in proving the quantum threshold theorem
for coherent and leakage noise and for quantum computation by measurements. In
addition, the proof provides a methodology which allows us to establish
improved rigorous lower bounds on the value of the quantum accuracy threshold.

We show that classical and quantum Kolmogorov complexity of binary strings
agree up to an additive constant. Both complexities are defined as the minimal
length of any (classical resp. quantum) computer program that outputs the
corresponding string.
  It follows that quantum complexity is an extension of classical complexity to
the domain of quantum states. This is true even if we allow a small
probabilistic error in the quantum computer's output. We outline a mathematical
proof of this statement, based on an inequality for outputs of quantum
operations and a classical program for the simulation of a universal quantum
computer.

The method of the quantum probability theory only requires simple structural
data of graph and allows us to avoid a heavy combinational argument often
necessary to obtain full description of spectrum of the adjacency matrix. In
the present paper, by using the idea of calculation of the probability
amplitudes for continuous-time quantum walk in terms of the quantum probability
theory, we investigate quantum central limit theorem for continuous-time
quantum walks on odd graphs.

Generalisation of the quantum weakest precondition result of D'Hondt and
Panangaden is presented. In particular the most general notion of quantum
predicate as positive operator valued measure (POVM) is introduced. The
previously known quantum weakest precondition result has been extended to cover
the case of POVM playing the role of a quantum predicate. Additionally, our
result is valid in infinite dimension case and also holds for a quantum
programs defined as a positive but not necessary completely positive
transformations of a quantum states.

We develop a quantum algorithm to solve combinatorial optimization problems
through quantum simulation of a classical annealing process. Our algorithm
combines techniques from quantum walks, quantum phase estimation, and quantum
Zeno effect. It can be viewed as a quantum analogue of the discrete-time Markov
chain Monte Carlo implementation of classical simulated annealing. Our
implementation scales with the inverse of the square root of the minimum
spectral gap of the stochastic matrix used in the classical simulation. The
quantum algorithm outperforms the classical one, which scales with the inverse
of the gap.

Zero-knowledge proof system is an important protocol that can be used as a
basic block for construction of other more complex cryptographic protocols.
Quantum zero-knowledge protocols have been proposed but, since their
implementation requires advanced quantum technology devices, experimental
implementation of zero-knowledge protocols have not being reported. In this
work, we present a quantum zero-knowledge protocol based on a quantum bit
commitment protocol that can be implemented with today technology. Hence, our
quantum zero-knowledge protocol can be readily implemented.

We introduce two modal natural deduction systems that are suitable to
represent and reason about transformations of quantum registers in an abstract,
qualitative, way. Quantum registers represent quantum systems, and can be
viewed as the structure of quantum data for quantum operations. Our systems
provide a modal framework for reasoning about operations on quantum registers
(unitary transformations and measurements), in terms of possible worlds (as
abstractions of quantum registers) and accessibility relations between these
worlds. We give a Kripke--style semantics that formally describes quantum
register transformations and prove the soundness and completeness of our
systems with respect to this semantics.

The universal quantum computation is obtained when there exists asymmetric
anisotropic exchange between electron spins in coupled semiconductor quantum
dots. The asymmetric Heisenberg model can be transformed into the isotropic
model through the control of two local unitary rotations for the realization of
essential quantum gates. The rotations on each qubit are symmetrical and depend
on the strength and orientation of asymmetric exchange. The implementation of
the axially symmetric local magnetic fields can assist the construction of
quantum logic gates in anisotropic coupled quantum dots. This proposal can
efficiently use each physical electron spin as a logical qubit in the universal
quantum computation.

In quantum information theory, a geometric approach, known as "quantum
information geometry," has been considered as a powerful method. In this
thesis, we give a computational geometric interpretation to the geometric
structure of a quantum system. Especially we introduce the concept of the
Voronoi diagram and the smallest enclosing ball problem to the space of quantum
states. With those tools in computational geometry, we analyze the adjacency
structure of a point set in the quantum state space. Additionally, as an
application, we show an effective method to compute the capacity of a quantum
channel.

Quantum computer programming is emerging as a new subject domain from
multidisciplinary research in quantum computing, computer science, mathematics
(especially quantum logic, lambda calculi, and linear logic), and engineering
attempts to build the first non-trivial quantum computer. This paper briefly
surveys the history, methods, and proposed tools for programming quantum
computers circa late 2007. It is intended to provide an extensive but
non-exhaustive look at work leading up to the current state-of-the-art in
quantum computer programming. Further, it is an attempt to analyze the needed
programming tools for quantum programmers, to use this analysis to predict the
direction in which the field is moving, and to make recommendations for further
development of quantum programming language tools.

A chain of interacting spin behaves like a quantum mediator (quantum link)
which allows two distant parties that control the ends of the chain to exchange
quantum messages. We show that over repeated uses without resetting the study
of a quantum link can be connected to correlated quantum channels with finite
dimensional environment (finite memory quantum channel). Then, using coding
arguments for such kind of channels and results on mixing channels we present a
protocol that allows us to achieve perfect information transmission through a
quantum link.

We show that a continuous action of a quantum semigroup $\mathcal{S}$ on a
finite quantum space (finite dimensional $\mathrm{C}^*$-algebra) preserving a
faithful state comes from a continuous action of the quantum Bohr
compactification $\mathfrak{b}\mathcal{S}$ of $\mathcal{S}$. Using the
classification of continuous compact quantum group actions on $M_2$ we give a
complete description of all continuous quantum semigroup actions on this
quantum space preserving a faithful state.

Studies of quantum computer implementations suggest cellular quantum computer
architectures. These architectures can simulate the evolution of quantum
cellular automata, which can possibly simulate both quantum and classical
physical systems and processes. It is however known that except for the trivial
case, unitary evolution of one-dimensional homogeneous quantum cellular
automata with one qubit per cell is not possible. Quantum cellular automata
that comprise two qubits per cell are defined and their evolution is studied
using a quantum computer simulator. The evolution is unitary and its linearity
manifests itself as a periodic structure in the probability distribution
patterns.

We construct a new family of quantum MDS codes from classical generalized
Reed-Solomon codes and derive the necessary and sufficient condition under
which these quantum codes exist. We also give code bounds and show how to
construct them analytically. We find that existing quantum MDS codes can be
unified under these codes in the sense that when a quantum MDS code exists,
then a quantum code of this type with the same parameters also exists. Thus as
far as is known at present, they are the most important family of quantum MDS
codes.

We study the use of the quantum wavelet transform to extract efficiently
information about the multifractal exponents for multifractal quantum states.
We show that, combined with quantum simulation algorithms, it enables to build
quantum algorithms for multifractal exponents with a polynomial gain compared
to classical simulations. Numerical results indicate that a rough estimate of
fractality could be obtained exponentially fast. Our findings are relevant e.g.
for quantum simulations of multifractal quantum maps and of the Anderson model
at the metal-insulator transition.

Quantum optics with quantum gases represents a new field, where the quantum
nature of both light and ultracold matter plays equally important role. Only
very recently this ultimate quantum limit of light-matter interaction became
feasible experimentally. In traditional quantum optics, the cold atoms are
considered classically, whereas, in quantum atom optics, the light is used as
an essentially classical axillary tool. On the one hand, the quantization of
optical trapping potentials can significantly modify many-body dynamics of
atoms, which is well-known only for classical potentials. On the other hand,
atomic fluctuations can modify the properties of the scattered light.

This paper reviews the histories approach to quantum mechanics. This
discussion is then applied to theories of quantum gravity. It is argued that
some of the quantum histories must approximate (in a suitable sense) to
classical histories, if the correct classical regime is to be recovered. This
observation has significance for the formulation of new theories (such as
quantum gravity theories) as it puts a constraint on the kinematics, if the
quantum/classical correspondence principle is to be preserved. Consequences for
quantum gravity, particularly for Lorentz symmetry and the idea of "emergent
geometry", are discussed.

A general law is presented for (composite) quantum systems which directly
describes the time evolution of quantum states (with one or both components)
through an arbitrary noisy quantum channel. It is shown that the time evolution
of all quantum states through a quantum channel can be completely captured by
the evolution of a single 'probe state'. Thus in order to grasp the information
of the final output states subject to a quantum channel, especially an unknown
one, it only requires quantum state tomography of a single probe state, which
dramatically simplifies the practical operations in experiment.

Quantum integrable systems and their classical counterparts are considered.
We show that the symplectic structure and invariant tori of the classical
system can be deformed by a quantization parameter $\hbar$ to produce a new
(classical) integrable system. The new tori selected by the
$\hbar$-equidistance rule represent the spectrum of the quantum system up to
$O(\hbar^\infty)$ and are invariant under quantum dynamics in the long-time
range $O(\hbar^{-\infty})$. The quantum diffusion over the deformed tori is
described. The analytic apparatus uses quantum action-angle coordinates
explicitly constructed by an $\hbar$-deformation of the classical
action-angles.

We first consider a method of centering and a change of variable formula for
a quantum integral. We then present three types of quantum integrals. The first
considers the expectation of the number of heads in $n$ flips of a "quantum
coin". The next computes quantum integrals for destructive pairs examples. The
last computes quantum integrals for a (Lebesgue)^2 quantum measure. For this
last type we prove some quantum counterparts of the fundamental theorem of
calculus.

One of the earliest cryptographic applications of quantum information was to
create quantum digital cash that could not be counterfeited. In this paper, we
describe a new type of quantum money: quantum coins, where all coins of the
same denomination are represented by identical quantum states. We state
desirable security properties such as anonymity and unforgeability and propose
two candidate quantum coin schemes: one using black box operations, and another
using blind quantum computation.

We discuss prospects of building hybrid quantum devices involving elements of
atomic and molecular physics, quantum optics and solid state elements with the
attempt to combine advantages of the respective systems in compatible
experimental setups. In particular, we summarize our recent work on quantum
hybrid devices and briefly discuss recent ideas for quantum networks. These
include interfacing of molecular quantum memory with circuit QED, and using
nanomechanical elements strongly coupled to qubits represented by electronic
spins, as well as single atoms or atomic ensembles.

In classical physics the energy density of a field, such as the
electromagnetic field, is always positive. However, in quantum field theory it
has been shown that the energy density can be negative. There are restrictions,
called the quantum inequalities, on the amount of negative energy that can
exist in some region of space and time. In this paper we will focus on the
spatial quantum inequality as it applies to a massless scalar field in 1-1
dimensional space-time. The spatial quantum inequality is a restriction on the
amount of negative energy that can exist in a region of space at a given time.
It will be shown that we can specify a quantum state which violates the spatial
quantum inequality.

The goal of the presented paper is to provide an introduction to the basic
computational models used in quantum information theory. We review various
models of quantum Turing machine, quantum circuits and quantum random access
machine (QRAM) along with their classical counterparts. We also provide an
introduction to quantum programming languages, which are developed using the
QRAM model. We review the syntax of several existing quantum programming
languages and discuss their features and limitations.

We present a scheme for tuning two quantum point contacts as a
quantum-limited charge detector. Based on the scattering matrix approach, we
analyze a general condition of quantum-limited detection with a single-channel
quantum detector possessing time-reversal symmetry. From this analysis we find
that quantum-limited detection can be easily realized with two quantum point
contacts connected in series, which is not possible if only a single quantum
point contact is used. We also discuss the sensitivity enhancement due to
multiple reflections of the two point contacts.

Recently, it was realized that quantum discord can be seen as the minimal
amount of correlations which are lost when some local quantum operations are
performed. Based on this formulation of quantum discord, we provide a
systematical analysis of quantum and classical correlations present in both
bipartite and multipartite quantum systems. As a natural result of this
analysis, we introduce a new measure of the overall quantum correlations which
is lower bounded by quantum discord.

Like entanglement, quantum discord quantifies the quantum correlations.
Unlike entanglement, whose detection is extremely difficult, the quantum
discord of an arbitrary bipartite state allows itself to be detected perfectly
by a single observable, the quantum discord witness. In particular, we report a
single observable whose expectation value provides a necessary and sufficient
condition for the vanishing quantum discord of an arbitrary bipartite unknown
state with four copies. A quantum circuit is designed to measure the quantum
discord witness by using only local qubit-measurements.

We solve the quantum version of the $A_1$ $T$-system by use of quantum
networks. The system is interpreted as a particular set of mutations of a
suitable (infinite-rank) quantum cluster algebra, and Laurent positivity
follows from our solution. As an application we re-derive the corresponding
quantum network solution to the quantum $A_1$ $Q$-system and generalize it to
the fully non-commutative case. We give the relation between the quantum
$T$-system and the quantum lattice Liouville equation, which is the quantized
$Y$-system.

A new form of covariant quantum theory based on a quantum version of the
action principle is considered for the case of a free bosonic string. The
central idea of the new approach is to delay conditions of stationarity of the
classical action with respect to Lagrangian multipliers up to the quantum level
where delayed conditions of stationarity are imposed on a quantum action.
Physical states of the ordinary covariant quantum theory are replaced by well
defined stationary states as those which obey quantum action principle. The
stationary states have well defined energies.

We develop a hybrid type of quantum annealing in which we control temperature
and quantum field simultaneously. We study the efficiency of proposed quantum
annealing and find a good schedule of changing thermal fluctuation and quantum
fluctuation. In this paper, we focus on clustering problems which are important
topics in information science and engineering. We obtain the better solution of
the clustering problem than the standard simulated annealing by proposed
quantum annealing.

Quantum blobs are the smallest phase space units of phase space compatible
with the uncertainty principle of quantum mechanics and having the symplectic
group as group of symmetries. Quantum blobs are in a bijective correspondence
with the squeezed coherent states from standard quantum mechanics, of which
they are a phase space picture. This allows us to propose a substitute for
phase space in quantum mechanics. We study the relationship between quantum
blobs with a certain class of level sets defined by Fermi for the purpose of
representing geometrically quantum states.

We propose an atomic quantum transistor based on exchange by virtual photons
between two atomic systems through the control gate-atom. The quantum
transistor is realized in two QED cavities coupled in nano-optical scheme. We
have found novel effect in quantum dynamics of coupled three-node atomic system
which provides control-SWAP(\theta) processes in quantum transistor operation.
New possibilities of quantum entanglement in an example of bright and dark
qubit states have been demonstrated for quantum transport in the atomic chain.
Potentialities of the proposed nano-optical design for quantum computing and
fundamental issues of multi-atomic physics are also discussed.

We study the quantum symmetric spaces for quantum general linear groups
modulo symplectic groups. We first determine the structure of the quotient
quantum group and completely determine the quantum invariants. We then derive
the characteristic property for quantum Phaffian as well as its role in the
quantum invariant sub-ring. The spherical functions, viewed as Macdonald
polynomials, are also studied as the quantum analog of zonal spherical
polynomials.

We present an information geometric characterization of Grover's quantum
search algorithm. First, we quantify the notion of quantum distinguishability
between parametric density operators by means of the Wigner-Yanase quantum
information metric. We then show that the quantum searching problem can be
recast in an information geometric framework where Grover's dynamics is
characterized by a geodesic on the manifold of the parametric density operators
of pure quantum states constructed from the continuous approximation of the
parametric quantum output state in Grover's algorithm. We also discuss possible
deviations from Grover's algorithm within this quantum information geometric
setting.

The discrete time quantum walk which is a quantum counterpart of random walk
plays important roles in the theory of quantum information theory. In the
present paper, we focus on discrete time quantum walks viewed as quantization
of random walks on the path. We obtain a weak limit theorem for the time
averaged distribution of our quantum walks.

We show how multi-walker quantum walks can be implemented in a quantum
quincunx created via cavity quantum electrodynamics. The implementation of a
quantum walk with a multi-walker opens up the interesting possibility to
introduce entanglement and more advanced walks. With different coin tosses and
initial states the multi-walker quantum walk shows different probability
distributions which deviate strongly from the classical random walks with
quadratic enhanced spreadings and localization effects. By introducing
decoherence, the transition from quantum walks to the classical versions is
observed. We introduce the average fidelity decay as a signature to investigate
the decoherence-induced irreversibility of quantum walks.

We show two fascinating topics lying between quantum information processing
and statistical mechanics. First, we introduce an elaborated technique, the
surface code, to prepare the particular quantum state with robustness against
decoherence. Second, we show another interesting technique to employ quantum
nature, quantum annealing. Through both of the topics, we would shed light on
the birth of the interdisciplinary field between quantum mechanics and
statistical mechanics.

In this work we prove that the possibility of superactivation of quantum
channel capacities is determined by the mathematical properties of the quantum
relative entropy function. Before our work this fundamental and purely
mathematical connection between the quantum relative entropy function and the
superactivation effect was completely unrevealed. We demonstrate the results
for the quantum capacity; however the proposed theorems and connections hold
for all other channel capacities of quantum channels for which the
superactivation is possible.

We propose a 2-categorical formalism for describing classical information,
quantum systems, and their interactions, based on the principle that classical
information can be encoded as correlations between quantum systems. Applying
this in the 2-category of 2-Hilbert spaces recovers ordinary quantum theory.
The formalism gives a simple, graphical way to describe the specification and
implementation of certain quantum procedures, which we use to investigate
quantum teleportation, dense coding, complementarity and quantum erasure,
verifying our results computationally using a software package.

In this paper, we present a general quantum computation compiler, which maps
any given quantum algorithm to a quantum circuit consisting a sequential set of
elementary quantum logic gates based on recursive cosine-sine decomposition.
The resulting quantum circuit diagram is provided by directly linking the
package output written in LaTex to Qcircuit.tex
$<$http://www.cquic.org/Qcircuit$>$. We illustrate the use of the Qcompiler
package through various examples with full details of the derived quantum
circuits. Besides its generality and simplicity, Qcompiler produces quantum
circuits which reflect the symmetry of the systems under study.

The non-Markovian decoherence of quantum and classical correlations is
analytically obtained when two qubits are asymmetrically subjected to the bit
flip channel and phase flip channel. For one class of initial mixed states,
quantum correlations quantified by quantum discord decay synchronously with
classical correlations. The discovery that the decaying rates of quantum and
classical correlations suddenly change at the characteristic time is physically
interpreted by the distance from quantum state to the closest classical states.
In a large time interval, quantum correlations are greater than classical
correlations. The quantum and classical correlations can be preserved over a
longer period of time via the kernel characterizing the environment memory
effects.

It is shown how the Schrodinger equation can be transformed to a complex
quantum Navier-Stokes equation with imaginary dilatational viscosity. The
self-diffusion in quantum gases is described by this complex quantum
hydrodynamics and the quantum Marangoni effect is introduced. The density
matrix operator and Wigner function equations, corresponding to quantum
hydrodynamics, are described. Finally, the quantum teleportation in time is
also discussed via a non-relativistic version of the Majorana equation.

Quantum reading aims at retrieving classical information stored in an optical
memory with low energy and high accuracy by exploiting the inherently quantum
properties of light. We provide an optimal Gaussian strategy for quantum
reading with phase-shift keying encoding that makes use of squeezed coherent
light and homodyne detectors to largely outperform the Standard Quantum Limit,
even in the presence of loss. This strategy, being feasible with current
quantum optical technology, represents a viable prototype for a highly
efficient and reliable quantum-enhanced optical reader.

The time evolution of some quantum states can be slowed down or even stopped
under frequent measurements. This is the usual quantum Zeno effect. Here, we
report an operator quantum Zeno effect, in which the evolution of some physical
observables is slowed down through measurements even though the quantum state
changes randomly with time. Based on the operator quantum Zeno effect, we show
how we can protect quantum information from decoherence with two-qubit
measurements, realizable with noisy two-qubit interactions.

A quantum metamaterial can be implemented as a quantum coherent 1D array of
qubits placed in a transmission line. The properties of quantum metamaterials
are determined by the local quantum state of the system. Here we show that a
spatially-periodic quantum state of such a system can be realized without
direct control of the constituent qubits, by their interaction with the
initializing ("priming") pulses sent through the system in opposite directions.
The properties of the resulting quantum photonic crystal are determined by the
choice of the priming pulses. This proposal can be readily generalized to other
implementations of quantum metamaterials.

We point out that the quantum de Finetti representation, unique for
infinitely extendable exchangeable systems, assigns a non-zero Quantum Discord
to uncorrelated systems and thus cannot serve as an universal prior
distribution in the Bayesian Quantum Tomography. This apparent paradox stems
from linearity of the Born rule for the probability assignment in Quantum
Mechanics, which results in mixing of one's knowledge about the quantum state
and the representative of the state in one density matrix.

Weak measurements may result in extra quantity of quantumness of correlations
compared with standard projective measurement on a bipartite quantum state. We
show that the quantumness of correlations by weak measurements can be consumed
for information encoding which is only accessible by coherent quantum
interactions. Then it can be considered as a resource for quantum information
processing and can quantify this quantum advantage. We conclude that weak
measurements can create more valuable quantum correlation.

The quantumness of the correlation known as quantum correlation is usually
measured by quantum discord. So far various quantum discords can be roughly
understood as indirect measure by some special discrepancy of two quantities.
We present a direct measure of quantum correlation by revealing the difference
between the structures of classically and quantum correlated states. Our
measure explicitly includes the contributions of the inseparability and local
non-orthogonality of the eigenvectors of a density. Besides its relatively easy
computability, our measure can provide a unified understanding of quantum
correlation of all the present versions.

A universal quantum simulator would enable efficient simulation of quantum
dynamics by implementing quantum-simulation algorithms on a quantum computer.
Specifically the quantum simulator would efficiently generate qubit-string
states that closely approximate physical states obtained from a broad class of
dynamical evolutions. I provide an overview of theoretical research into
universal quantum simulators and the strategies for minimizing computational
space and time costs. Applications to simulating many-body quantum simulation
and solving linear equations are discussed.

Motivated by successful classical models for noise reduction, we suggest a
quantum technique for filtering noise out of quantum states. The purpose of
this paper is twofold: presenting a simple construction of quantum
cross-correlations between two wave-functions, and presenting a scheme for a
quantum noise filtering. We follow a well-known scheme in classical
communication theory that attenuates random noise, and show that one can build
a quantum analog by using non-trace-preserving operators. By this we introduce
a classically motivated signal processing scheme to quantum information theory,
which can help reducing quantum noise, and particularly, phase flip noise.

A model of dynamics of quantum correlations of two modes quasi-Bell cat
states, based on Glauber coherent states, is considered. The analytic
expressions of pairwise entanglement of formation, quantum discord and its
geometrized variant are explicitly derived. We analyze the distribution of
quantum correlations between the two modes and the environment. We show that,
in contrast with squared concurrence, entanglement of formation, quantum
discord and geometric quantum discord do not follow the property of monogamy
except in some particular situations that we discuss.

We review an approach to fault-tolerant holonomic quantum computation on
stabilizer codes. We explain its workings as based on adiabatic dragging of the
subsystem containing the logical information around suitable loops along which
the information remains protected.

This chapter will primarily focus on the studies of quantum optics with
semiconductor, epitaxially grown quantum dots embedded in photonic crystal
cavities. We will start by giving brief introductions into photonic crystals
and quantum dots, then proceed with the introduction to cavity quantum
electrodynamics (QED) effects, with a particular emphasis on the demonstration
of these effects on the quantum dot-photonic crystal platform. Finally, we will
focus on the applications of such cavity QED effects.

Protective measurements illustrate how Yakir Aharonov's fundamental insights
into quantum theory yield new experimental paradigms that allow us to test
quantum mechanics in ways that were not possible before. As for quantum theory
itself, protective measurements demonstrate that a quantum state describes a
single system, not only an ensemble of systems, and reveal a rich ontology in
the quantum state of a single system. We discuss in what sense protective
measurements anticipate the theorem of Pusey, Barrett, and Rudolph (PBR),
stating that, if quantum predictions are correct, then two distinct quantum
states cannot represent the same physical reality.

Categorical quantum mechanics, which examines quantum theory via
dagger-compact closed categories, gives satisfying high-level explanations to
the quantum information procedures such as Bell-type entanglement or
complementary observables (\cite{AC}, \cite{Co}, \cite{Co2}). Inspired by the
fact that Quantum Game Theory can be seen as branch of quantum information, we
express Quantum Game Theory procedures using the topological semantics provided
by Categorical Quantum Mechanics. We also investigate Bayesian Games with
correlation from this novel point of view while considering the connection
between Bayesian game theory and Bell non-locality investigated recently by
Brunner and Linden \cite{BL}.

We present a convenient and efficient way to exchange and distribute
multipartite entangled state via atomic coherence induced by
electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT) in an atomic ensemble. By using
the EIT-based nondegenerate four-wave mixing processes, the generation,
exchange, and distribution of light-light, atom-light, and atom-atom
multipartite entanglement can be achieved in a deterministic way with only
coherent light fields. This EIT-induced atomic coherence acts as a quantum
information processor and has the function of quantum beam splitter, quantum
frequency converter, quantum entangler, and quantum repeater, which greatly
facilitates the operations in quantum information processing, and holds
promising applications in realistic scalable quantum communication and quantum
networks

We present several families of graphs that allow both efficient quantum walk
implementations and efficient quantum walk based search algorithms. For these
graphs, we construct quantum circuits that explicitly implement the full
quantum walk search algorithm, without reference to a `black box' oracle. These
circuits provide a practically implementable method to explore quantum walk
based search algorithms with the aim of eventual real-world applications. We
also provide a numerical analysis of a quantum walk based search along a
twisted toroid family of graphs, which requires O($\sqrt{n}$ log($n$))
elementary 2-qubit quantum gate operations to find a marked node.

We study the quantum motion of null shells in the quantum space-time of a
black hole in loop quantum gravity. We treat the shells as test fields and use
an effective dynamics for the propagation equations. The shells propagate
through the region where the singularity was present in the classical black
hole space-time, but is absent in the quantum space-time, eventually emerging
through a white hole to a new asymptotic region of the quantum space-time. The
profiles of the shells get distorted due to the quantum fluctuations in the
Planckian region that replaces the singularity. The evolution of the shells is
unitary throughout the whole process.

In a recent paper of Bhowmick, Skalski and So{\l}tan the notion of a quantum
group of automorphisms of a finite quantum group was introduced and, for a
given finite quantum group G, existence of the universal quantum group acting
on G by automorphisms was proved. We show that this universal quantum group is
in fact a classical group. The key ingredient of the proof is the use of
multiplicative unitary operators, and we include a thorough discussion of this
notion in the context of finite quantum groups.

Fully homomorphic encryption enables arbitrary computation on encrypted data
without decrypting the data. Here it is studied in the context of quantum
information processing. Based on universal quantum circuit, we present a
quantum fully homomorphic encryption (QFHE) scheme, which permits arbitrary
quantum transformation on an encrypted data. The QFHE scheme is proved to be
perfectly secure. In the scheme, the decryption key is different from the
encryption key, however, the encryption key cannot be public. Moreover, the
evaluate algorithm of the scheme is independent of the encryption key, so it is
very applicable in delegated quantum computing between two parties.

Multipartite quantum systems show properties which do not admit a classical
explanation. In particular, even nonentangled states can enjoy a kind of
quantum correlations called quantum discord. I discuss some recent results on
the role of quantum discord in metrology. Given an interferometric phase
estimation protocol where the Hamiltonian is initially unknown to the
experimentalist, the quantum discord of the probe state quantifies the minimum
precision of the estimation. This provides a physical interpretation to a
widely investigated information-theoretic quantity.

In this paper, we consider an entangled Ising-XYZ diamond chain structure.
Quantum correlations for this model is investigated by using of quantum discord
and trace distance discord. Quantum correlations is obtained for different
values of the anisotropy parameter, magnetic field and temperature. By
comparison between quantum correlations, we show trace distance discord is
always larger than quantum discord. Finally, some novel effects, such as
increasing the quantum correlations with temperature and constructive role of
anisotropy parameter which may paly to the quantum correlations were observed.

In quantum theory particles are represented as wave packets. Shock wave
analysis of quantum equations of motion shows that wave function representation
in general and wave packet description in particular contains discontinuities
due to a non-zero quantum force. The quantum force causes wave packet
dispersion which results in the intersection of characteristic curves
developing a shock discontinuity. Since quantum force vanishes for localized
quantum density waves [1], it is thus established that localized quantum
density waves form the only class of wave function representation of particles
in quantum theory without shock wave discontinuities.

Quantum transport is the study of the motion of electrons through nano-scale
structures small enough that quantum effects are important. In this
contribution I review recent theoretical proposals to use the techniques of
quantum feedback control to manipulate the properties of electron flows and
states in quantum-transport devices. Quantum control strategies can be grouped
into two broad classes: measurement-based control and coherent control, and
both are covered here. I discuss how measurement-based techniques are capable
of producing a range of effects, such as noise suppression, stabilisation of
nonequillibrium quantum states and the realisation of a nano-electronic
Maxwell's demon. I also describe recent results on coherent transport control
and its relation to quantum networks.

We are developing a quantum interactive learning tutorial (QuILT) on a
quantum eraser for students in upperlevel quantum mechanics. The QuILT exposes
students to contemporary topics in quantum mechanics and uses a guided approach
to learning. It adapts existing visualization tools to help students build
physical intuition about quantum phenomena and strives to help them develop the
ability to apply quantum principles in physical situations. The quantum eraser
apparatus in the gedanken (thought) experiments and simulations that students
learn from in the QuILT uses a MachZehnder Interferometer with single photons.
We also discuss findings from a preliminary in-class evaluation.

Quantum entanglement plays an important role in quantum computation and
communication. It is necessary for many protocols and computations, but causes
unexpected disturbance of computational states. Hence, static analysis of
quantum entanglement in quantum programs is necessary. Several papers studied
the problem. They decided qubits were entangled if multiple qubits unitary
gates are applied to them, and some refined this reasoning using information
about the state of each separated qubit. However, they do not care about the
fact that unitary gate undoes entanglement and that measurement may separate
multiple qubits. In this paper, we extend prior work using stabilizer
formalism. It refines reasoning about separability of quantum variables in
quantum programs.

Violation of a Bell inequality guarantees the existence of quantum
correlations in a quantum state. A pure bipartite quantum state, having
nonvanishing quantum correlation, always violates a Bell inequality. Such
correspondence is absent for multipartite pure quantum states. For a shared
multipartite quantum state, we establish a connection between the monogamy of
Bell inequality violation and genuine multi-site entanglement as well as
monogamy-based multiparty quantum correlation measures. We find that
generalized Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states and another single-parameter
family states which we refer to as the "special Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger"
states have the status of extremal states in such relations.

A quantum state represents neither properties of a physical system nor
anyone's knowledge of its properties. The important question is not what
quantum states represent but how they are used---as informational bridges.
Knowing about some physical situations (its backing conditions), an agent may
assign a quantum state to form expectations about other possible physical
situations (its advice conditions). Quantum states are objective: only
expectations based on correct state assignments are generally reliable. If a
quantum state represents anything, it is the objective probabilistic relations
between its backing conditions and its advice conditions. This paper offers an
account of quantum states and their function as informational bridges, in
quantum teleportation and elsewhere.

We propose that a pulsed quantum optomechanical system can be applied for the
problem of quantum parameter estimation, which targets to yield higher
precision of parameter estimation utilizing quantum resource than that using
classical methods. Mainly concentrating on the quantum Fisher information with
respect to the mechanical frequency, we find that the corresponding precision
of parameter estimation on the mechanical frequency can be enhanced by applying
applicable optical resonant pulsed driving on the cavity of the optome-
chanical system. Further investigation shows that the mechanical squeezing
resulting from the optical pulsed driving is the quantum resource used in
optimal quantum estimation on the frequency.

A rigorous general definition of quantum probability is given, which is valid
for elementary events and for composite events, for operationally testable
measurements as well as for inconclusive measurements, and also for
non-commuting observables in addition to commutative observables. Our proposed
definition of quantum probability makes it possible to describe quantum
measurements and quantum decision making on the same common mathematical
footing. Conditions are formulated for the case when quantum decision theory
reduces to its classical counterpart and for the situation where the use of
quantum decision theory is necessary.

Quantum metamaterials generalize the concept of metamaterials (artificial
optical media) to the case when their optical properties are determined by the
interplay of quantum effects in the constituent 'artificial atoms' with the
electromagnetic field modes in the system. The theoretical investigation of
these structures demonstrated that a number of new effects (such as quantum
birefringence, strongly nonclassical states of light, etc) are to be expected,
prompting the efforts on their fabrication and experimental investigation. Here
we provide a summary of the principal features of quantum metamaterials and
review the current state of research in this quickly developing field, which
bridges quantum optics, quantum condensed matter theory and quantum information
processing.

This paper surveys some recent results on the theory of quantum linear
systems and presents them within a unified framework. Quantum linear systems
are a class of systems whose dynamics, which are described by the laws of
quantum mechanics, take the specific form of a set of linear quantum stochastic
differential equations (QSDEs). Such systems commonly arise in the area of
quantum optics and related disciplines. Systems whose dynamics can be described
or approximated by linear QSDEs include interconnections of optical cavities,
beam-spitters, phase-shifters, optical parametric amplifiers, optical
squeezers, and cavity quantum electrodynamic systems. With advances in quantum
technology, the feedback control of such quantum systems is generating new
challenges in the field of control theory. Potential applications of such
quantum feedback control systems include quantum computing, quantum error
correction, quantum communications, gravity wave detection, metrology, atom
lasers, and superconducting quantum circuits.
  A recently emerging approach to the feedback control of quantum linear
systems involves the use of a controller which itself is a quantum linear
system. This approach to quantum feedback control, referred to as coherent
quantum feedback control, has the advantage that it does not destroy quantum
information, is fast, and has the potential for efficient implementation. This
paper discusses recent results concerning the synthesis of H-infinity optimal
controllers for linear quantum systems in the coherent control case. An
important issue which arises both in the modelling of linear quantum systems
and in the synthesis of linear coherent quantum controllers is the issue of
physical realizability. This issue relates to the property of whether a given
set of QSDEs corresponds to a physical quantum system satisfying the laws of
quantum mechanics.

Time-evolution of open, dissipative quantum system is a stochastic process
that consists of a series of quantum jumps that take place at random times.
Between quantum jumps quantum system idles for some time in a particular
quantum state. Based on superfermion/superboson formalism and general
Kossakowski- Lindblad master equation for an open quantum system we develop a
method to compute distribution of waiting times between quantum jumps. We
illustrate the use of the theory by computing waiting time distribution for
model Fermi-system in thermodynamic equilibrium.

We present a new scheme for quantum interfaces to accomplish the
interconversion of photonic qubits and spin qubits based on optomechanical
resonators and the spin-orbit-induced interactions in suspended carbon nanotube
quantum dots. This interface implements quantum spin transducers and further
enables electrical manipulation of local electron spin qubits, which lays the
foundation for all-electrical control of state transfer protocols between two
distant quantum nodes in a quantum network. We numerically evaluate the state
transfer processes and proceed to estimate the effect of each coupling strength
on the operation fidelities.

Quantum computing has seen tremendous progress in the past years. However,
due to limitations in scalability of quantum technologies, it seems that we are
far from constructing universal quantum computers for everyday users. A more
feasible solution is the delegation of computation to powerful quantum servers
on the network. This solution was proposed in previous studies of Blind Quantum
Computation, with guarantees for both the secrecy of the input and of the
computation being performed. In this work, we further develop this idea of
computing over encrypted data, to propose a multiparty delegated quantum
computing protocol in the measurement-based quantum computing framework.

In conventional NMR experiments, the Zeeman energy gaps of the nuclear spin
ensembles are much lower than their thermal energies, and accordingly exhibit
tiny polarizations. Generally such low-purity quantum states are devoid of
quantum entanglement. However, there exist certain nonclassical correlations
which can be observed even in such systems. In this chapter, we discuss three
such quantum correlations, namely, quantum contextuality, Leggett-Garg temporal
correlations, and quantum discord. In each case, we provide a brief theoretical
background and then describe some results from NMR experiments.

Quantum entanglement is among the most fundamental, yet from classical
intuition also most surprising properties of the fully quantum nature of
physical reality. We report several experiments performed on IBM's Quantum
Experience demonstrating envariance -- entanglement assisted invariance.
Envariance is a recently discovered symmetry of composite quantum systems,
which is at the foundational origin of physics and a quantum phenomenon of pure
states. These very easily reproducible and freely accessible experiments on
Quantum Experience provide simple tools to study the properties of envariance,
and we illustrate this for several cases with "quantum universes" consisting of
up to five qubits.

Quantum transport properties are instrumental to understanding quantum
coherent transport processes. Potential applications of quantum transport are
widespread, in areas ranging from quantum information science to quantum
engineering, and not restricted to quantum state transfer, control and
manipulation. Here, we study light transport in a ring array of coupled
resonators enclosed synthetic magnetic flux. The ring configuration, with an
arbitrary number of resonators embedded, forms an two-arm Aharonov-Bohm
interferometer. The influence of magnetic flux on light transport is
investigated. Tuning the magnetic flux can lead to resonant transmission, while
half-integer magnetic flux quantum leads to completely destructive interference
and transmission zeros in an interferometer with two equal arms.

The notion of quantum hashing formalized by F. Ablayev and A. Vasiliev in
2013. F. Ablayev and M. Ablayev in 2014 introduced the notion of quantum hash
generator which is convenient technical tool for constructing quantum hash
func- tions. M. Ziatdinov in 2014 presented group approach for constructing
quantum hash functions. All these mentioned above results present constructions
of quan- tum hash functions based on abelian groups. This paper continue the
research on quantum hashing. Our approach allows us to construct quantum hash
function working on any (finite) group. Also our approach allows us to
construct quantum hash functions based on classical hash function from $NC^1$.

We propose a novel architecture for scalable quantum computation based on
quantum actuated decoherence-free (DF) qubits. Each qubit is encoded by the DF
subspace of a nuclear spin pair and has long coherence time. A nitrogen-vacancy
center in diamond is chosen as the quantum actuator to realize initialization,
readout and universal control of DF qubits with fidelities higher than 99%. It
reduces the challenge of classical interfaces from controlling and observing
complex quantum systems down to a simple quantum actuator. Our scheme also
provides a novel way to handle complex quantum systems.

We propose a unitary procedure to reconstruct quantum secret for a quantum
secret sharing scheme constructed from stabilizer quantum error-correcting
codes. Erasure correcting procedures for stabilizer codes need to add missing
shares for reconstruction of quantum secret while unitary reconstruction
procedures for certain class of quantum secret sharing are known to work
without adding missing shares. The proposed procedure also works without adding
missing shares.

We highlight three conflicts between quantum theory and classical general
relativity, which make it implausible that a quantum theory of gravity can be
arrived at by quantising classical gravity. These conflicts are: quantum
nonlocality and space-time structure; the problem of time in quantum theory;
and the quantum measurement problem. We explain how these three aspects bear on
each other, and how they point towards an underlying noncommutative geometry of
space-time.

Interaction with a thermal environment decoheres the quantum state of a
mechanical oscillator. When the interaction is sufficiently strong, such that
more than one thermal phonon is introduced within a period of oscillation,
quantum coherent oscillations are prevented. This is generally thought to
preclude a wide range of quantum protocols. Here, we introduce a pulsed
optomechanical protocol that allows ground state cooling, general linear
quantum non-demolition measurements, optomechanical state swaps, and quantum
state preparation and tomography without requiring quantum coherent
oscillations. Finally we show how the protocol can break the usual thermal
limit for sensing of impulse forces.

We experimentally investigate various quantum polarization features of
three-photon quantum states, including product and entangled states with
varying purity. The three-photon quantum states are categorized into six
classes based on the rotation symmetry of mean, variance, and skewness of the
polarization distribution. The representative three-photon quantum states in
each category is prepared from double-pair emission from pulsed spontaneous
parametric down-conversion and quantum interferometry. We demonstrate that the
three-photon quantum states show interesting quantum polarization properties,
such as, maximum sum-uncertainty and hidden polarizations.

Recently, W. Slofstra proved that the set of quantum correlations is not
closed. We prove that the set of synchronous quantum correlations is not
closed, which implies his result, by giving an example of a synchronous game
that has a perfect quantum approximate strategy but no perfect quantum
strategy. We also exhibit a graph for which the quantum independence number and
the quantum approximate independence number are different. We prove new
characterisations of synchronous quantum approximate correlations and
synchronous quantum spatial correlations. We solve the synchronous
approximation problem of Dykema and the second author, which yields a new
equivalence of Connes' embedding problem in terms of synchronous correlations.

Quantum correlations: entanglement and quantumness of correlations are main
resource for quantum information theory. In this chapter it is presented the
scenarios which quantumness of correlations plays an interesting role in
entanglement distillation protocol. By means of Koashi - Winter relation, it is
discussed that quantumness of correlations are related to the irreversibility
of the entanglement distillation protocol. The activation protocol is
introduced, and it is proved that quantumness of correlations can create
distillable entanglement between the system and the measurement apparatus
during a local measurement process.

Local implementation of non-local quantum gates is necessary in a distributed
quantum computer. Here, we demonstrate the non-local implementation of
controlled-unitary quantum gates proposed by Eisert et al. (Phys Rev A
62:052317, 2000) using the five-qubit IBM quantum computer. We verify the
fidelity and accuracy of the implementation through the techniques of quantum
state and process tomographies.

Quantum cryptography is set to become a key technology for future secure
communications. However, to get maximum benefit in communication networks,
transmission links will need to be shared among several quantum keys for
several independent users. Such links will enable switching in quantum network
nodes of the quantum keys to their respective destinations. In this paper we
present an experimental demonstration of a photonic integrated silicon chip
quantum key distribution protocols based on space division multiplexing (SDM),
through multicore fiber technology. Parallel and independent quantum keys are
obtained, which are useful in crypto-systems and future quantum network.

Quantum speed limits set an upper bound to the rate at which a quantum system
can evolve. Adopting a phase-space approach we explore quantum speed limits
across the quantum to classical transition and identify equivalent bounds in
the classical world. As a result, and contrary to common belief, we show that
speed limits exist for both quantum and classical systems. As in the quantum
domain, classical speed limits are set by a given norm of the generator of time
evolution.

A common viewpoint is that a particle could be quantum entangled with another
particle arbitrarily far away. But in this paper we suggest that there is an
utmost distance for the existence of quantum entanglement between two
particles, beyond which the initial quantum entanglement would be broken by
some quantum gravitational effect. The utmost distance is proposed to be
$L_{QE}=\lambda^\alpha l_{p}^{1-\alpha}$, where $\lambda$ is the quantum
wavelength of the particles and $l_{p}= 1.616 \times 10^{-35} m$ is the Planck
length. The most probable value of the parameter $\alpha$ is $2$ or $3$. As
other quantum-gravitational effects, this effect is very weak and hard to be
detected in foreseeable experiment.

The method of noisy multiqubit quantum circuits modeling is proposed. The
analytical formulas for the dependence of quantum algorithms accuracy on qubits
count and noise level are obtained for Grover algorithm and quantum Fourier
transform. It is shown that the proposed approach is very much in line with
results obtained by Monte Carlo statistical modeling method. The developed
theory makes it possible to predict the influence of quantum noise on the
accuracy of the forward-looking multiqubit quantum systems under development.

Quantum collision models (CMs) provide advantageous case studies for
investigating major issues in open quantum systems theory, and especially
quantum non-Markovianity. After reviewing their general definition and
distinctive features, we illustrate the emergence of a CM in a familiar quantum
optics scenario. This task is carried out by highlighting the close connection
between the well-known input-output formalism and CMs. Within this quantum
optics framework, usual assumptions in the CMs' literature - such as
considering a bath of non-interacting yet initially correlated ancillas - have
a clear physical origin.

In classical spacetime null geodesics give information on where free massless
particles travel. In quantum spacetime where quantum indefiniteness renders
spacetime fuzzy null geodesics as sharp trajectories cannot be retained. We
propose a "tendency postulate" that gives information on where free massless
objects tend to travel based exclusively on meaningful notions in quantum
spacetime. It says that free massless objects tend to trace large quantum
causal fluctuations. We implement the tendency postulate in concrete models of
quantum spacetime that describe causal fluctuation. The tendency postulate
supports the suggestion that information can leak out of black holes in a
quantum spacetime without introducing superluminal signalling.

Quantum non-locality has been an extremely fruitful subject of research,
leading the scientific revolution towards quantum information science, in
particular to device-independent quantum information processing. We argue that
time is ripe to work on another basic problem in the foundations of quantum
physics, the quantum measurement problem, that should produce good physics both
in theoretical, mathematical, experimental and applied physics. We briefly
review how quantum non-locality contributed to physics (including some
outstanding open problems) and suggest ways in which questions around
Macroscopic Quantumness could equally contribute to all aspects of physics.

We introduce a general method for the construction of quasiprobability
representations for arbitrary notions of quantum coherence. Our technique
yields a nonnegative probability distribution for the decomposition of any
classical state. Conversely, quantum phenomena are certified in terms of signed
distributions, i.e., quasiprobabilities, and a residual component unaccessible
via classical states. Our unifying method combines well-established concepts,
such as phase-space distributions in quantum optics, with resources of
quantumness relevant for quantum technologies. We apply our approach to analyze
various forms of quantum coherence in different physical systems. Moreover, our
framework renders it possible to uncover complex quantum correlations between
systems, for example, via quasiprobability representations of multipartite
entanglement.

The correspondence principle suggests that a quantum description for the
microworld should be naturally transited to a classical description within the
classical limit. However, it seems that there is a large gap between quantum
no-cloning and classical duplication. In this paper, we prove that a classical
duplication process can be realized using a universal quantum cloning machine.
In the classical world, information is encoded in a large number of quantum
states instead of one quantum state. When tolerable errors occur in a small
number of the quantum states, the fidelity of duplicated copies of classical
information can approach unity. That is, classical information duplication is
equivalent to a redundant quantum cloning process with self-correcting.

An idea for an application of the quantum annealing mechanism to construct a
projection measurement in a collective space is proposed. We use the annealing
mechanism to drive the pointer degree of freedom associated with the
measurement process. The parameters in its problem Hamiltonian is given not as
classical variables but as quantum variables (states). By additionally
introducing successive short interactions so that the back reaction to the
quantum state (to be measured) can be controlled, we invent a quantum
mechanically parametrized quantum annealing process. Applying to a particular
problem of discrimination of two collective states , we find that the process
by the quantum mechanically parametrized annealing arrives at projection
measurement in the collective space when the parametrizing quantum variables
themselves are orthogonal (or distinguishable).

This essay aims at emphasizing the potential of a synergy between quantum
gravity and the quantum computing technologies. Such a combination would be
beneficial for both understanding the Planck scale physics and the stimulation
of development of the quantum technologies. This is especially important in the
present early days of commercial quantum computers, when challenges originating
from the basic research may catalyze the technological progress. Our attention
is focused on simulations of a Planck scale system with the use of existing
adiabatic quantum computers. Current possibilities, technological challenges
and prospects for the future are outlined.

We conduct experimental simulations of many body quantum systems using a
\emph{hybrid} classical-quantum algorithm. In our setup, the wave function of
the transverse field quantum Ising model is represented by a restricted
Boltzmann machine. This neural network is then trained using variational Monte
Carlo assisted by a D-Wave quantum sampler to find the ground state energy. Our
results clearly demonstrate that already the first generation of quantum
computers can be harnessed to tackle non-trivial problems concerning physics of
many body quantum systems.

We introduce the notion of noncommutative complex spheres with partial
commutation relations for the coordinates. We compute the corresponding quantum
symmetry groups of these spheres, and this yields new quantum unitary groups
with partial commutation relations. We also discuss some geometric aspects of
the quantum orthogonal groups associated with the mixture of classical and free
independence discovered by Speicher and Weber. We show that these quantum
groups are quantum symmetry groups on some quantum spaces of spherical vectors
with partial commutation relations.

We map the quantum problem of a free bosonic field in a space-time dependent
background into a classical problem. $N$ degrees of freedom of a real field in
the quantum theory are mapped into $2N^2$ classical simple harmonic oscillators
with specific initial conditions. We discuss how this classical-quantum
correspondence (CQC) may be used to evaluate quantum radiation and fully treat
the backreaction of quantum fields on classical backgrounds. The technique has
widespread application, including to the quantum evaporation of classical
breathers ("oscillons").

Foliated quantum codes are a resource for fault-tolerant measurement-based
quantum error correction for quantum repeaters and for quantum computation.
They represent a general approach to integrating a range of possible quantum
error correcting codes into larger fault-tolerant networks. Here we present an
efficient heuristic decoding scheme for foliated quantum codes, based on
message passing between primal and dual code 'sheets'. We test this decoder on
two different families of sparse quantum error correcting code: turbo codes and
bicycle codes, and show reasonably high numerical performance thresholds. We
also present a construction schedule for building such code states.

Continuous-time quantum walks (CTQWs) on static graphs provide efficient
methods for search and sampling as well as a model for universal quantum
computation. We consider an extension of CTQWs to the case of dynamic graphs,
in which an ordered sequence of graphs governs free evolution of the quantum
walk. We then consider how perfect state transfer during the quantum walk can
be used to design dynamic graphs that implement a universal set of quantum
logic gates. We give explicit examples for a complete logical basis, and we
validate implementations using numerical simulations for quantum teleportation
and addition circuits. Finally, we discuss the potential for realizing CTQWs on
dynamic graphs using actively controlled quantum optical waveguides.

Here we review some of the recent developments in Quantum Optics. After a
brief introduction to the historical development of the subject, we discuss
some of the modern aspects of quantum optics including atom field interactions,
quantum state engineering, metamaterials and plasmonics, optomechanical
systems, PT (Parity-Time) symmetry in quantum optics as well as
quasi-probability distributions and quantum state tomography. Further, the
recent developments in topological photonics is briefly discussed. The potent
role of the subject in the development of our understanding of quantum physics
and modern technologies is brought out.

An extension of the Variational Quantum Eigensolver (VQE) method is presented
where a quantum computer generates an accurate exchange-correlation potential
for a Density Functional Theory (DFT) simulation on classical hardware. The
method enables efficient simulations of quantum systems by interweaving
calculations on classical and quantum resources. DFT is implemented on
classical hardware, which enables the efficient representation of and operation
on quantum systems while being formally exact. The portion of the simulation
operating on quantum hardware produces an accurate exchange-correlation
potential but only requires relatively short depth quantum circuits.

The monogamy relations of quantum correlation restrict the sharability of
quantum correlations in multipartite quantum states. We show that all measures
of quantum correlations satisfy some kind of monogamy relations for arbitrary
multipartite quantum states. Moreover, by introducing residual quantum
correlations, we present tighter monogamy inequalities that are better than all
the existing ones. In particular, for multi-qubit pure states, we also
establish new monogamous relations based on the concurrence and concurrence of
assistance under the partition of the first two qubits and the remaining ones.

Probabilistically creating n perfect clones from m copies for one of N priori
known quantum states with minimum failure probability is a long-standing
problem. We provide a rigorous proof for the geometric approach to this
probabilistic quantum cloning problem when N = 2. Then, we give the general
geometric form of the sufficient and necessary condition of probabilistic
cloning for N known quantum states. By this general geometric approach, we
realize the optimal probabilistic quantum cloning of N known quantum states
with priori probabilities. The results are also applicable to the
identification of those N quantum states.

Quantum measurements play a fundamental role in quantum mechanics and quantum
information processing, but it is not easy to implement generalized
measurements, the most powerful measurements allowed by quantum mechanics. Here
we propose a simple recipe for implementing generalized measurements on a qudit
via quantum walks. With this recipe, any discrete quantum measurement can be
implemented via a one-dimensional discrete quantum walk; the number of steps is
only two times the number of measurement outcomes. As an illustration, we
present a unified solution for implementing arbitrary symmetric informationally
complete measurements in dimension 3.

We define quantum determinants in Quantum Matrix Algebras, related to couples
of compatible braidings following the scheme from [G]. We establish relations
between these determinants and the so-called column-(row-)determinants, often
used in the theory of integrable systems. Also, we generalize the quantum
integrable spin systems from [CFRS] by using generalized Yangians, related to
couples of compatible braidings. We demonstrate that such quantum integrable
spin systems are not uniquely determined by the "quantum coordinate ring" of
the basic space V. For instance, the "quantum plane" xy=qyx gives rise to two
different integrable systems: rational and trigonometric ones.

Quantum optimal transportation seeks an operator which minimizes the total
cost of transporting a quantum state to another state, under some constraints
that should be satisfied during transportation. We formulate this issue by
extending the Monge-Kantorovich problem, which is a classical optimal
transportation theory, and present some applications. As examples, we address
quantum walk, quantum automata and quantum games from a viewpoint of optimal
transportation. Moreover we explicitly show the folk theorem of the prisoners'
dilemma, which claims mutual cooperation can be an equilibrium of the repeated
game. A series of examples would show generic and practical advantages of the
abstract quantum optimal transportation theory.

Quantum mechanics imposes a fundamental bound on the minimum time required
for the quantum systems to evolve between two states of interest. This bound
introduces a limit on the speed of the dynamical evolution of the systems,
known as the quantum speed limit. We show that black holes can drastically
affect the speed limit of a two-level fermionic quantum system subjected to an
open quantum dynamics. As we demonstrate, the quantum speed limit can enhance
at the vicinity of a black hole's event horizon in the Schwarzschild spacetime.

We study the quasiprobability representation of quantum light, as introduced
by Glauber and Sudarshan, for the unified characterization of quantum
phenomena. We begin with reviewing the past and current impact of this
technique. Regularization and convolution methods are specifically considered
since they are accessible in experiments. We further discuss more general
quantum systems for which the concept of negative probabilities can be
generalized, being highly relevant for quantum information science. For
analyzing quantum superpositions, we apply recently developed approaches to
visualize quantum coherence of states via negative quasiprobability
representations, including regularized quasiprobabilities for light and more
general quantum correlated systems.

We show that the mutually exclusive nature of classical and quantum
correlations distributed in multi-party quantum systems can be characterized in
terms of $q$-expectation. Using Tsallis-$q$ entropy and $q$-expectation, we
first provide generalized definitions of classical and quantum correlations,
and establish their trade-off relations in three-party quantum systems of
arbitrary dimension with respect to $q$-expectation for $q\geq 1$. We also
provide equivalence conditions for monogamy and polygamy inequalities of
quantum entanglement and quantum discord distributed in three-party quantum
systems of arbitrary dimension with respect to $q$-expectation for $q\geq 1$.

We study the relations between quantum coherence and quantum nonlocality,
genuine quantum entanglement and genuine quantum nonlocality. We show that the
coherence of a qubit state can be converted to the nonlocality of two-qubit
states via incoherent operations. The results are also generalized to qudit
case. Furthermore, rigorous relations between the quantum coherence of a
single-partite state and the genuine multipartite quantum entanglement, as well
as the genuine three-qubit quantum nonlocality are established.

This work extends the previous quantum projection filtering scheme in [Gao
Q., Zhang G., & Petersen I. R. (2019). An exponential quantum projection filter
for open quantum systems. \emph{Automatica}, 99, 59-68.], by adding an
optimality analysis result. A reformulation of the quantum projection filter is
derived by minimizing the truncated Stratonovich stochastic Taylor expansion of
the difference between the true quantum trajectory and its approximation on a
lower-dimensional submanifold through quantum information geometric techniques.
Simulation results for a qubit example demonstrate better approximation
performance for the new quantum projection filter.

Quantum tomography is a widely applicable tool for complete characterization
of quantum states and processes. In the present work, we develop a method for
precision-guaranteed quantum process tomography. With the use of the
Choi-Jamiolkowski isomorphism, we generalize the recently suggested extended
norm minimization estimator for the case of quantum processes. Our estimator is
based on the Hilbert-Schmidt distance for quantum processes. Specifically, we
discuss the application of our method for characterizing quantum gates of a
superconducting quantum processor in the framework of the IBM Q Experience.

The reliability of quantum channels for transmitting information is of
profound importance from the perspective of quantum information. This naturally
leads to the question as how well a quantum state is preserved when subjected
to a quantum channel. We propose a measure of quantumness of channels based on
non-commutativity of quantum states that is intuitive and easy to compute. We
apply the proposed measure to some well known noise channels, both Markovian as
well as non-Markovian and find that the results are in good agreement with
those from a recently introduced $l_1$-norm coherence based measure.

The stored-program architecture is canonical in classical computing, while
its power has not been fully recognized for the quantum case. We study quantum
information processing with stored quantum program states, i.e., using qubits
instead of bits to encode quantum operations. We develop a stored-program model
based on Choi states, following from channel-state duality, and a
symmetry-based generalization of deterministic gate teleportation. Our model
enriches the family of universal models for quantum computing, and can also be
employed for tasks including quantum simulation and communication.

Quantum Stochastic Walks (QSW) allow for a generalization of both quantum and
classical random walks by describing the dynamic evolution of an open quantum
system on a network, with nodes corresponding to quantum states of a fixed
basis. We consider the problem of quantum state discrimination on such a
system, and we solve it by optimizing the network topology weights. Finally, we
test it on different quantum network topologies and compare it with optimal
theoretical bounds.

In this paper we study the quantum graphs of mixed-unitary channels generated
by tensor products of Pauli operators, which we call Pauli channels. We show
that most quantum graphs arising from Pauli channels have non-trivial quantum
cliques or quantum anticliques which are stabilizer codes. However, a
reformulation of Nik Weaver's quantum Ramsey theorem in terms of stabilizer
codes and Pauli channels fails. Specifically, for every positive integer $n$,
there exists an $n$-qubit Pauli channel for which any non-trivial quantum
clique or quantum anticlique fails to be a stabilizer code.

Quantum network is fragile to disturbances when qubits are transmitted
through quantum channel. Reliability is an essential requirement for a quantum
network and even the future quantum internet. A metric is needed to describe
the reliability of a quantum network to build a robust infrastructure and
communication protocols. In this work, we combined quantum physical parameters
with graphic algebraic connectivity to indicate the transmission throughput of
a grid quantum network. This metric can be extended to multiple equal
point-to-point distance topology. This work also studies how to tune specific
physical parameters to maintain or even increase connectivity when nodes or
edges are removed from a network. Using this metric, resources consumption are
compared.

A new type of quantum entangled interferometer was recently realized that
employs parametric amplifiers as the wave splitting and recombination elements.
The quantum entanglement stems from the parametric amplifiers, which produce
quantum correlated fields for probing the phase change signal in the
interferometer. This type of quantum entangled interferometer exhibits some
unique properties that are different from traditional beam splitter-based
interferometers such as Mach-Zehnder interferometers. Because of these
properties, it is superior to the traditional interferometers in many aspects,
especially in the phase measurement sensitivity. We will review its unique
properties and applications in quantum metrology and sensing, quantum
information, and quantum state engineering.

In this work we will study the Local quantum Fisher information and the local
quantum uncertainty in two-qubit Heisenberg XYZ spin chain model with
Dzyaloshinskii Moriya (DM) interaction in z direction. Here we show that the DM
interaction and spin interactions along the x, y, and z axis can increase and
maintain local quantum Fisher information and local quantum uncertainty. It is
also shown that because of thermal fluctuations local quantum Fisher
information and local quantum uncertainty are decreased by increasing
temperature. They are equal to one at very low temperature and starts to decay
only after a thershold temperature.

We derive the optimal analytical quantum-state-transfer control solutions for
two disparate quantum memory blocks. Employing the SLH formalism description of
quantum network theory, we calculate the full quantum dynamics of system
populations, which lead to the optimal solution for the highest quantum
fidelity attainable. We show that, for the example where the mechanical modes
of two optomechanical oscillators act as the quantum memory blocks, their
optical modes and a waveguide channel connecting them can be used to achieve a
quantum state transfer fidelity of 96% with realistic parameters using our
derived optimal control solution. The effects of the intrinsic losses and the
asymmetries in the physical memory parameters are discussed quantitatively.

Quantum information science is an exciting, wide, rapidly progressing,
cross-disciplinary field, and that very nature makes it both attractive and
hard to enter. In this primer, we first provide answers to the three essential
questions that any newcomer needs to know: How is quantum information
represented? How is quantum information processed? How is classical information
extracted from quantum states? We then introduce the most basic quantum
information theoretic notions concerning entropy, sources, and channels, as
well as secure communications and error correction. We conclude with examples
that illustrate the power of quantum correlations. No prior knowledge of
quantum mechanics is assumed.

One of the major approaches to neuromorphic computing is using memristors as
analogue synapses. We propose unitary quantum gates that exhibit memristive
behaviours, including Ohm's law, pinched hysteresis loop and synaptic
plasticity. Hysteresis depending on the quantum phase and long-term plasticity
that encodes the quantum state are observed. We also propose a three-layer
neural network with the capability of universal quantum computing. Quantum
state classification on the memristive neural network is demonstrated. Our
results pave the way towards brain-inspired quantum computing. We obtain these
results in numerical simulations and experiments on the superconducting quantum
computer ibmq_vigo.

Construction of quantum codes and entanglement-assisted quantum codes with
good parameters via classical codes is an important task for quantum computing
and quantum information. In this paper, by a family of one-generator
quasi-cyclic codes, we provide quasi-cyclic extended constructions that
preserve the self-orthogonality to obtain stabilizer quantum codes. As for the
computational results, some binary and ternary stabilizer codes with good
parameters are constructed. Moreover, we present methods to construct
maximal-entanglement entanglement-assisted quantum codes by means of the class
of quasi-cyclic codes and their extended codes. As an application, some good
maximal-entanglement entanglement-assisted quantum codes are obtained and their
parameters are compared.

By directly using the probability formulas of quantum trajectories, we
construct an auxiliary open quantum system for a periodically driven open
quantum system whose dynamics is governed by the Floquet quantum master
equation. This auxiliary system can generate a quantum trajectory ensemble that
is consistent with the canonical quantum trajectory ensemble. We find that, at
a long time limit, though the Lindblad operators are modified, the coherent
dynamics of the auxiliary system is the same as that of the original system. A
periodically driven two-level quantum system is used to illustrate this
construction.

This paper proposes a highly efficient quantum algorithm for portfolio
optimisation targeted at near-term noisy intermediate-scale quantum computers.
Recent work by Hodson et al. (2019) explored potential application of hybrid
quantum-classical algorithms to the problem of financial portfolio rebalancing.
In particular, they deal with the portfolio optimisation problem using the
Quantum Approximate Optimisation Algorithm and the Quantum Alternating Operator
Ansatz. In this paper, we demonstrate substantially better performance using a
newly developed Quantum Walk Optimisation Algorithm in finding high-quality
solutions to the portfolio optimisation problem.

We study the dynamic sensitivity of the quantum Rabi model, which exhibits
quantum criticality in the finite-component-system case. This dynamic
sensitivity can be detected by introducing an auxiliary two-level atom
far-off-resonantly coupled to the cavity field of the quantum Rabi model. We
find that when the quantum Rabi model goes through the critical point, the
auxiliary atom experiences a sudden decoherence, which can be characterised by
a sharp decay of the Loschmidt echo. Our scheme will provide a reliable way to
observe quantum phase transition in ultrastrongly coupled quantum systems.

We propose a model of the substructural logic of Bunched Implications (BI)
that is suitable for reasoning about quantum states. In our model, the
separating conjunction of BI describes separable quantum states. We develop a
program logic where pre- and post-conditions are BI formulas describing quantum
states -- the program logic can be seen as a counterpart of separation logic
for imperative quantum programs. We exercise the logic for proving the security
of quantum one-time pad and secret sharing, and we show how the program logic
can be used to discover a flaw in Google Cirq's tutorial on the Variational
Quantum Algorithm (VQA).

Superconducting quantum computing technology has ushered in a new era of
computational possibilities. While a considerable research effort has been
geared toward improving the quantum technology and building the software stack
to efficiently execute quantum algorithms with reduced error rate, effort
toward optimizing how quantum output states are defined and classified for the
purpose of reducing the error rate is still limited. To this end, this paper
proposes DisQ, a quantum output state classification approach which reduces
error rates of quantum programs on NISQ devices.

We address the problem of facial expression recognition and show a possible
solution using a quantum machine learning approach. In order to define an
efficient classifier for a given dataset, our approach substantially exploits
quantum interference. By representing face expressions via graphs, we define a
classifier as a quantum circuit that manipulates the graphs adjacency matrices
encoded into the amplitudes of some appropriately defined quantum states. We
discuss the accuracy of the quantum classifier evaluated on the quantum
simulator available on the IBM Quantum Experience cloud platform, and compare
it with the accuracy of one of the best classical classifier.

Thermodynamics of quantum systems and quantum thermal machines are rapidly
developing fields, which have already delivered several promising results, as
well as raised many intriguing questions. Many-body quantum machines present
new opportunities stemming from many-body effects. At the same time, they pose
new challenges related to many-body physics. In this short review we discuss
some of the recent developments on technologies based on many-body quantum
systems. We mainly focus on many-body effects in quantum thermal machines. We
also briefly address the role played by many-body systems in the development of
quantum batteries and quantum probes.

Quantum entanglement between two or more bipartite entities is a core concept
in quantum information areas limited to microscopic regimes directly governed
by Heisenberg uncertainty principle via quantum superposition, resulting in
nondeterministic and probabilistic quantum features. Such quantum features
cannot be generated by classical means. Here, a pure classical method of
on-demand entangled light-pair generation is presented in a macroscopic regime
via basis randomness. This conflicting idea of conventional quantum mechanics
invokes a fundamental question about both classicality and quantumness, where
superposition is key to its resolution.

In this work we develop a quantum field theory formalism for deep learning,
where input signals are encoded in Gaussian states, a generalization of
Gaussian processes which encode the agent's uncertainty about the input signal.
We show how to represent linear and non-linear layers as unitary quantum gates,
and interpret the fundamental excitations of the quantum model as particles,
dubbed ``Hintons''. On top of opening a new perspective and techniques for
studying neural networks, the quantum formulation is well suited for optical
quantum computing, and provides quantum deformations of neural networks that
can be run efficiently on those devices. Finally, we discuss a semi-classical
limit of the quantum deformed models which is amenable to classical simulation.

We study the quantum Riemannian geometry of quantum projective spaces of any
dimension. In particular we compute the Riemann and Ricci tensors, using
previously introduced quantum metrics and quantum Levi-Civita connections. We
show that the Riemann tensor is a bimodule map and derive various consequences
of this fact. We prove that the Ricci tensor is proportional to the quantum
metric, giving a quantum analogue of the Einstein condition, and compute the
corresponding scalar curvature. Along the way we also prove several results for
various objects related to those mentioned here.

Graph structures are ubiquitous throughout the natural sciences. Here we
consider graph-structured quantum data and describe how to carry out its
quantum machine learning via quantum neural networks. In particular, we
consider training data in the form of pairs of input and output quantum states
associated with the vertices of a graph, together with edges encoding
correlations between the vertices. We explain how to systematically exploit
this additional graph structure to improve quantum learning algorithms. These
algorithms are numerically simulated and exhibit excellent learning behavior.
Scalable quantum implementations of the learning procedures are likely feasible
on the next generation of quantum computing devices.

Quantum theory is the focus of current research. Likelihood functions are
widely used in many fields. Because the classic likelihood functions are too
strict for extreme data in practical applications, Yager proposed soft ordered
weighted average (OWA) operator. In the quantum method, probability is
represented by Euler's function. How to establish a connection between quantum
theory and OWA is also an open question. This article proposes OWA opreator
under quantum theory, and discusses the relationship between quantum soft OWA
operater and classical soft OWA operator through some examples. Similar to
other quantum models, this research has more extensive applications in quantum
information.

Quantum synchronizable codes are kinds of quantum error-correcting codes that
can not only correct the effects of quantum noise on qubits but also the
misalignment in block synchronization. In this paper, the quantum
synchronizable codes constructed are CSS quantum error-correcting codes whose
synchronization capabilities reach the upper bound. And we use cyclic codes
gained by sextic cyclotomic classes to construct two classes of quantum
synchronizable codes. Moreover, the quantum synchronizable codes are posses
good error-correcting capability towards bit error and phase error, since the
cyclic codes we used are optimal or almost optimal.

Quantum computers are invaluable tools to explore the properties of complex
quantum systems. We show that dynamical localization of the quantum sawtooth
map, a highly sensitive quantum coherent phenomenon, can be simulated on
actual, small-scale quantum processors. Our results demonstrate that quantum
computing of dynamical localization may become a convenient tool for evaluating
advances in quantum hardware performances.

Whereas anyons are the building blocks in topological quantum computation, it
remains challenging to create and control each anyon individually. Here, we
point out that dissipative dynamics in cavities deterministically deliver
droplets of light in desired fractional quantum Hall states. In these quantum
Hall droplets, both the number and locations of anyons are precisely
controllable without requiring extra potentials to imprint and localize such
quasiparticles. Using the density profile of light, the anyonic statistics is
readily accessible. Moreover, entangling a quantum spin valve with these
quantum Hall droplets establishes a direct readout of the braiding statistics.
Our work unfolds a promising route for quantum optics to solve challenging
problems in quantum Hall physics.

Loop Quantum Gravity is widely developed using canonical quantization in an
effort to find the correct quantization for gravity. Affine quantization, which
is like canonical quantization augmented bounded in one orientation, e.g., a
strictly positive coordinate. We open discussion using canonical and affine
quantizations for two simple problems so each procedure can be understood. That
analysis opens a modest treatment of quantum gravity gleaned from some typical
features that exhibit the profound differences between aspects of seeking the
quantum treatment of Einstein's gravity.

For a system to qualify as a quantum fluid, quantum-statistical effects
should operate in addition to quantum-mechanical ones. Here, we address the
hitherto unexplored dynamical condition for the quantum-statistical effects to
be manifested, and consider particle exchange events in the gaslike regime of
fluid dynamics as a dynamical process with an intrinsic time scale. We
subsequently propose a quantitative criterion of particle indistinguishability
and associated quantum statistics to be inoperative at short time and emerge at
long time. Verifiable experimentally, our predictions enable a systematic
search for a transition between statistics-active and statistics-inactive
regimes in quantum fluids.

We propose a hybrid classical-quantum approach for modeling transition
probabilities in health and disability insurance. The modeling of logistic
disability inception probabilities is formulated as a support vector regression
problem. Using a quantum feature map, the data is mapped to quantum states
belonging to a quantum feature space, where the associated kernel is determined
by the inner product between the quantum states. This quantum kernel can be
efficiently estimated on a quantum computer. We conduct experiments on the IBM
Yorktown quantum computer, fitting the model to disability inception data from
a Swedish insurance company.

One of the fundamental theories of physics is that of quantum mechanics.
Quantum mechanics tries to explain the inconsistencies in the behaviors of
systems at the macro and micro scales. Quantum mechanics paved the way for
quantum computing based on qubits. The existence of quantum computers up to 65
qubits is known. The advent of quantum computers weakens the security of many
cryptographic algorithms. In this paper, we investigate quantum computing-based
attacks and shed light on possible future developments.

The construction of public key quantum money based on standard cryptographic
assumptions is a longstanding open question. Here we introduce franchised
quantum money, an alternative form of quantum money that is easier to
construct. Franchised quantum money retains the features of a useful quantum
money scheme, namely unforgeability and local verification: anyone can verify
banknotes without communicating with the bank. In franchised quantum money,
every user gets a unique secret verification key, and the scheme is secure
against counterfeiting and sabotage, a new security notion that appears in the
franchised model. Finally, we construct franchised quantum money and prove
security assuming one-way functions.

Wave-particle duality is a bizarre feature at the heart of quantum mechanics
which refers to the mutually exclusive dual attributes of quantum objects as
the wave and the particle. Quantum eraser presents a counterintuitive aspect of
the wave-particle duality.
  In this work, we show that quantum eraser can be quantitatively understood in
terms of the recently developed duality--entanglement relation. In other words,
we show that wave-particle-entanglement triality captures all the physics of
the quantum erasure. We find that a controllable partial erasure of the
which-path information is attainable, enabling the partial recovery of the
quantum interference and extending the scope of the conventional quantum eraser
protocols.

The relativistic Lorentz-covariant quantum space-times obtained by Snyder can
be described by the coset generators of (anti) de-Sitter algebras. Similarly,
the Lorentz-covariant quantum phase spaces introduced by Yang, which contain
additionally quantum curved fourmomenta and quantum-deformed relativistic
Heisenberg algebra, can be defined by suitably chosen coset generators of
conformal algebras. We extend such algebraic construction to the respective
superalgebras, which provide quantum Lorentz-covariant superspaces (SUSY Snyder
model) and indicate also how to obtain the quantum relativistic phase
superspaces (SUSY Yang model). In last Section we recall briefly other ways of
deriving quantum phase (super)spaces and we compare the spinorial Snyder type
models defining bosonic or fermionic quantum-deformed spinors.

This paper investigates the application of quantum computing technology to
airline gate-scheduling quadratic assignment problems (QAP). We explore the
quantum computing hardware architecture and software environment required for
porting classical versions of these type of problems to quantum computers. We
discuss the variational quantum eigensolver and the inclusion of
space-efficient graph coloring to the Quadratic Unconstrained Binary
Optimization (QUBO). These enhanced quantum computing algorithms are tested
with an 8 gate and 24 flight test case using both the IBM quantum computing
simulator and a 27 qubit superconducting transmon IBM quantum computing
hardware platform.

Quantum annealing is a promising method for solving combinational
optimization problems and performing quantum chemical calculations. The main
sources of errors in quantum annealing are the effects of decoherence and
non-adiabatic transition. We propose a method for suppressing both these
effects using inhomogeneous twist operators corresponding to the twist angles
of transverse fields applied to qubits. Furthermore, we adopt variational
methods to determine the optimal inhomogeneous twist operator for minimizing
the energy of the state after quantum annealing. Our approach is useful for
increasing the energy gap and/or making the quantum states robust against
decoherence during quantum annealing. In summary, our results can pave the way
to a new approach for realizing practical quantum annealing.

Recent research in the geometric formulation of quantum theory has implied
that Weyl Geometry can be used to merge quantum theory and general relativity
consistently as classical field theories. In the Weyl Geometric framework, it
seems that both quantum theory and gravity can merge consistently, once quantum
theory is geometrized. The extended differential geometry can modify the
quantum mechanical results into a more general nonlinear framework. Author
shows that, how the extended differential geometry modifies the known quantum
equations and also the modification to the Maxwell's electromagnetic equations.

We propose the encoding of memristive quantum dynamics on a digital quantum
computer. Using a set of auxiliary qubits, we simulate an effective
non-Markovian environment inspired by a collisional model, reproducing
memristive features between expectation values of different operators in a
single qubit. We numerically test our proposal in an IBM quantum simulator with
32 qubits, obtaining the pinched hysteresis curve that is characteristic of a
quantum memristor. Furthermore, we extend our method to the case of two coupled
quantum memristors, opening the door to the study of neuromorphic quantum
computing in the NISQ era.

Quantum adiabatic transfer is widely used in quantum computation and quantum
simulation. However, the transfer speed is limited by the quantum adiabatic
approximation condition, which hinders its application in quantum systems with
a short decoherence time. Here we demonstrate quantum adiabatic state transfers
that jump along geodesics in one-qubit and two-qubit superconducting transmons.
This approach possesses the advantages of speed, robustness, and high fidelity
compared with the usual adiabatic process. Our protocol provides feasible
strategies for improving state manipulation and gate operation in
superconducting quantum circuits.

In this paper, we introduce Frobenius von Neumann algebras and study quantum
convolution inequalities. In this framework, we unify quantum Young's
inequality on quantum symmetries such as subfactors, and fusion bi-algebras
studied in quantum Fourier analysis. Moreover, we prove quantum entropic
convolution inequalities and characterize the extremizers in the subfactor
case. We also prove quantum smooth entropic convolution inequalities. We obtain
the positivity of comultiplications of subfactor planar algebras, which is
stronger than the quantum Schur product theorem. All these inequalities provide
analytic obstructions of unitary categorification of fusion rings stronger than
Schur product criterion.

Despite being the most fundamental object in quantum theory, physicists are
yet to reach a consensus on the interpretation of a quantum wavefunction. In
the broad class of realist approaches, quantum states are viewed as
Liouville-like probability distributions over some space of physical variables
where indistinguishabity of non-orthogonal states is attributed to overlaps
between these distributions. Here we argue that such an interpretation of
quantum indistinguishability is wrong. In particular, we show that quantum
mechanical prediction of maximal violation of Mermin inequality in certain
thought experiment is incompatible with all ontological interpretations for
quantum theory where indistinguishability of non-orthonal quantum states is
explained, even partially, in terms of overlap of their Liouville
distributions.

Capacities of quantum channels are fundamental quantities in the theory of
quantum information. A desirable property is the additivity for a capacity.
However, this cannot be achieved for a few quantities that have been
established as capacity measures. Asymptotic regularization is generically
necessary making the study of capacities notoriously hard. In this work, by a
proper refinement of the physical settings of quantum communication, we prove
additive quantities for quantum channel capacities that can be employed for
quantum Shannon theorems. This refinement, only a tiny step away from the
standard settings, is consistent with the principle of quantum theory, and it
further demonstrates von Neumann entropy as the cornerstone of quantum
information.

We study the effects of quantum noise in hybrid quantum-classical solver for
sparse systems of linear equations using quantum random walks, applied to
stoquastic Hamiltonian matrices. In an ideal noiseless quantum computer, sparse
matrices achieve solution vectors with lower relative error than dense
matrices. However, we find quantum noise reverses this effect, with overall
error increasing as sparsity increases. We identify invalid quantum random
walks as the cause of this increased error and propose a revised linear solver
algorithm which improves accuracy by mitigating these invalid walks.

The main topic of this paper is using Einstein's equivalence principle in the
description of the gravity-induced wave function reduction in the framework of
Bohmian causal quantum theory. However, such concept has been introduced and
explored by Penrose for the standard quantum mechanics, but the capabilities of
Bohmian quantum mechanics makes it possible to get some of results more
clearly. In this regard, the critical mass for transition from the quantum
world to the classical world, the reduction time of the wave function and the
temperature that corresponds to the Unruh temperature will be obtained by
applying Einstein's equivalence principle for the quantum motion of particle.

We propose a simple design of a quantum electron microscope that ``queries''
a beam-sensitive phase object, such as a biological specimen, as part of
quantum computation. Lower quantum query complexity, not the time complexity,
of a quantum algorithm means less specimen damage, which translates to more
data extracted from the specimen. Hence small-scale quantum computing offers
provable quantum advantage in this context. A possible application of the
proposed microscope is the Grover search for a true structure, out of a set of
candidate structures.

Quantum phase estimation algorithm (PEA) is one of the most important
algorithms in early studies of quantum computation. It is also a key for many
other quantum algorithms, such as the quantum counting algorithm and the Shor's
integer factorization algorithm. However, we find that the PEA is not an
unbiased estimation, which prevents the estimation error from achieving an
arbitrarily small level. In this paper, we propose an unbiased phase estimation
algorithm (UPEA) based on the original PEA, and study its application in
quantum counting. We also show that a maximum likelihood post-processing step
can further improve its robustness. In the end, we apply UPEA to quantum
counting, and use an additional correction step to make the quantum counting
algorithm unbiased.

Quantum computing is an emerging paradigm that opens a new era for
exponential computational speedup. Still, quantum computers have yet to be
ready for commercial use. However, it is essential to train and qualify today
the workforce that will develop quantum acceleration solutions to get the
quantum advantage in the future. This tutorial gives a broad view of quantum
computing, abstracting most of the mathematical formalism and proposing a
hands-on with the quantum programming language Ket. The target audience is
undergraduate and graduate students starting in quantum computing -- no
prerequisites for following this tutorial.

Over the past few years, quantum computers and quantum algorithms have
attracted considerable interest and attention from numerous scientific
disciplines. In this article, we aim to provide a non-technical, yet
informative introduction to key aspects of quantum computing. We discuss
whether quantum computers one day might become useful tools for numerical
weather and climate prediction. Using a recently developed quantum algorithm
for solving non-linear differential equations, we integrate a simple non-linear
model. In addition to considering the advantages that quantum computers have to
offer, we shall also discuss the challenges one faces when trying to use
quantum computers for real-world problems involving ''big data'', such as
weather prediction.

Recently the quantum Oppenheimer-Snyder gravitational collapse model has been
proposed in loop quantum gravity, providing quantum-corrected Schwarzschild
spacetimes as the exterior of the collapsing dust ball. In this paper, the
quantum gravity effects on the black hole shadows in this model are studied,
and the stability of the quantum-corrected black holes is also analyzed by
calculating the quasinormal modes. It turns out that the quantum correction
always shrinks the radius of shadows, and the quantum-corrected black holes are
stable against the scalar and vector perturbations.

Characterizing and mitigating errors in current noisy intermediate-scale
devices is important to improve performance of next generations of quantum
hardware. In order to investigate the importance of the different noise
mechanisms affecting quantum computation, we perform full quantum process
tomography of single qubits in a real quantum processor in which echo
experiments are implemented. Besides error sources already included in standard
models, the obtained results show the dominant role of coherent errors, which
we practically correct by inserting random single-qubit unitaries in the
quantum circuit, significantly increasing the circuit length over which quantum
computations on actual quantum hardware produce reliable results.

This paper is about establishing a natural connection of quantum affine
algebras with quantum vertex algebras. Among the main results, we establish
$\hbar$-adic versions of the smash product construction of
  quantum vertex algebras and their $\phi$-coordinated quasi modules, which
were obtained before in a sequel, we construct a family of $\hbar$-adic quantum
vertex algebras $V_L[[\hbar]]^{\eta}$ as deformations of the lattice vertex
algebras $V_L$, and establish a natural connection between twisted quantum
affine algebras of type $A, D, E$ and equivariant $\phi$-coordinated quasi
modules for the $\hbar$-adic quantum vertex algebras $V_L[[\hbar]]^{\eta}$ with
certain specialized $\eta$.

Quantum algorithms are demonstrated to outperform classical algorithms for
certain problems and thus are promising candidates for efficient information
processing. Herein we aim to provide a brief and popular introduction to
quantum algorithms for both the academic community and the general public with
interest. We start from elucidating quantum parallelism, the basic framework of
quantum algorithms and the difficulty of quantum algorithm design. Then we
mainly focus on a historical overview of progress in quantum algorithm research
over the past three to four decades. Finally, we clarify two common questions
about the study of quantum algorithms, hoping to stimulate readers for further
exploration.

Variational Quantum Algorithms are among the most promising systems to
implement quantum computing under the Noisy-Intermediate Scale Quantum (NISQ)
technology. In variational quantum algorithm, wavefunction represented by a
parametrized ansatz and variational parameters are updated iteratively with a
classical computer based on the measurement outputs from the quantum computer.
In this paper, we investigate perturbation theory with these algorithms and
prospect the possibility of using the variational quantum algorithm to simulate
quantum dynamics in perturbation theory. We illustrate the use of algorithms
with detailed examples which are in good agreement with analytical calculations

TeD-Q is an open-source software framework for quantum machine learning,
variational quantum algorithm (VQA), and simulation of quantum computing. It
seamlessly integrates classical machine learning libraries with quantum
simulators, giving users the ability to leverage the power of classical machine
learning while training quantum machine learning models. TeD-Q supports
auto-differentiation that provides backpropagation, parameters shift, and
finite difference methods to obtain gradients. With tensor contraction,
simulation of quantum circuits with large number of qubits is possible. TeD-Q
also provides a graphical mode in which the quantum circuit and the training
progress can be visualized in real-time.

We introduce the notion of self-similarity for compact quantum groups. For a
finite set $X$, we introduce a $C^*$-algebra $\mathbb{A}_X$, which is the
quantum automorphism group of the infinite homogeneous rooted tree $X^*$.
Self-similar quantum groups are then certain quantum subgroups of
$\mathbb{A}_X$. Our main class of examples are called finitely-constrained
self-similar quantum groups, and we find a class of these examples that can be
described as quantum wreath products by subgroups of the quantum permutation
group.

The kernel trick in supervised learning signifies transformations of an inner
product by a feature map, which then restructures training data in a larger
Hilbert space according to an endowed inner product. A quantum feature map
corresponds to an instance with a Hilbert space of quantum states by fueling
quantum resources to ML algorithms. In this work, we point out that the quantum
state space is specific such that a measurement postulate characterizes an
inner product and that manipulation of quantum states prepared from classical
data cannot enhance the distinguishability of data points. We present a feature
map for quantum data as a probabilistic manipulation of quantum states to
improve supervised learning algorithms.

We redefine the quantum-MV algebras starting from involutive BE algebras and
we introduce and study the notion of quantum-Wajsberg algebras. We define the
commutative quantum-Wajsberg algebras and we give a characterization of these
structures. We also prove that any Wajsberg algebra is a quantum-Wajsberg
algebra, and give conditions for quantum-Wajsberg algebras to be Wajsberg
algebras. Furthermore, we prove that Wajsberg algebras are both
quantum-Wajsberg algebras and quantum-B algebras. Finally, we provide certain
conditions for quantum-MV algebras to be MV algebras.

Quantum entanglement serves as an important resource for quantum processing.
In the original thought experiment of the Quantum Cheshire Cat, the physical
properties of the cat (state) can be decoupled from its quantum entities. How
do quantum entanglement and weak values affect such thought experiment? Here,
we conceive a new thought experiment that exploits quantum entanglement with
weak (value) measurement. Specifically, we ask: can two entangled particles
exchange physical and quantum properties? We answer the question in the
affirmative.

We show that the delocalization-localization transition in a quantum-many
body (QMB) systems is a compelling quantum resource for achieving
quantum-enhanced sensitivity in parameter estimation. We exploit the
vulnerability of a near-transition QMB state against the parameter shift for
devising efficient sensing tools. In this realm the main focus of this work is
to identify, propose and analyze experimentally relevant quantum observables
for precision measurement. Taking a QMB system as a Fermi lattice under
quasi-periodic modulation that supports an energy-independent
delocalization-localization transition, we suggest operator-based adiabatic and
dynamical quantum sensors endowed with considerable quantum advantages.

We investigate the relationship between superselection rules and quantum
error correcting codes. We demonstrate that the existence of a superselection
rule implies the Knill-Laflamme condition in quantum error correction. As an
example, we examine quantum chromodynamics through the lens of quantum error
correction, where the proton and neutron states in the model are explored as
different superselection sectors that protect logical information. Finally we
comment on topological quantum error correcting codes and supersymmetric
quantum field theory within this framework.

Recently, a variety of quantum algorithms have been devised to estimate
thermal averages on a genuine quantum processor. In this paper, we consider the
practical implementation of the so-called Quantum-Quantum Metropolis algorithm.
As a testbed for this purpose, we simulate a basic system of three frustrated
quantum spins and discuss its systematics, also in comparison with the Quantum
Metropolis Sampling algorithm.

We propose a paraxial quantum simulator that requires only widely available
optical fibers or metamaterials. Such a simulator would facilitate
cost-effective quantum simulation without specialized techniques. We show
theoretically that the method accurately simulates quantum dynamics and quantum
effects for an example system, which invites extension of the method to
many-body systems using nonlinear optical elements and implementation of the
paraxial quantum simulator to extend access to quantum computation and
prototype quantum parity-time reversal ($\mathcal{PT}$) symmetric technologies.

Adopting a general framework for quantum-classical dynamics, we analyze the
interaction between quantum matter and a classical gravitational field. We
point out that, assuming conservation of momentum or energy, and assuming that
the dynamics obeys a particular decomposition property set out in the paper,
the classical gravitational field cannot change the momentum or energy of the
quantum system, whereas the quantum gravitational field can do so. Drawing upon
the fundamental relationship between conservation laws and the quantum
properties of objects, our analysis offers new perspectives for the study of
quantum gravity and provides a novel interpretation of existing experimental
observations, such as free fall.

With the rapid advancement of quantum computing technology, there is a
growing need for new debugging tools for quantum programs. Recent research has
highlighted the potential of assertions for debugging quantum programs. In this
paper, we investigate assertions in quantum ternary systems, which are more
challenging than those in quantum binary systems due to the complexity of
ternary logic. We propose quantum ternary circuit designs to assert classical,
entanglement, and superposition states, specifically geared toward debugging
quantum ternary programs.

The no-go theorem regarding unconditionally secure Quantum Bit Commitment
protocols is a relevant result in quantum cryptography. Such result has been
used to prove the impossibility of unconditional security for other protocols,
such as Quantum Oblivious Transfer or One-Sided Two Party Computation. In this
paper, we formally define two non-deterministic versions of Quantum Private
Queries, a protocol addressing the Symmetric-Private Information Retrieval
problem. We show that the strongest variant of such scheme is formally
equivalent to Quantum Bit Commitment, Quantum Oblivious Transfer and One-Sided
Two Party Computation protocols. This equivalence serves as conclusive evidence
of the impracticality of achieving unconditionally secure Strong Probabilistic
Quantum Private Queries.

Recent advances in applying thermodynamic ideas to quantum systems have
raised the novel prospect of using non-thermal, non-classical sources of
energy, of purely quantum origin, like quantum statistics, to extract
mechanical work in macroscopic quantum systems like Bose-Einstein condensates.
On the other hand, thermodynamic ideas have also been applied to small systems
like single molecules and quantum dots. In this paper we study the quantum
thermodynamics of small systems of anyons, with specific emphasis on the
quantum Otto engine which uses, as its working medium, just one or two anyons.
Formulae are derived for the efficiency of the Otto engine as a function of the
statistics parameter.

We investigate the role of magic in the quantum capacity of channels. We
consider the quantum channel of the recently proposed discrete beam splitter
with the fixed environment state. We find that if the fixed environment state
is a stabilizer state, then the quantum capacity is zero. Moreover, we find
that the quantum capacity is nonzero for some magic states, and the quantum
capacity increases linearly with respect to the number of single-qudit magic
states in the environment. These results suggest that magic can increase the
quantum capacity of channels, which sheds new insight into the role of
stabilizer and magic states in quantum communication.

This paper explores the underlying physics behind seamless transduction of
digital information encoded in the classical microwave domain to the quantum
optical domain. We comprehensively model the quantum mechanical interaction
mediating the transduction in a seamless wireless-to-optical converter. We
highlight that the quantum mechanical interaction can be enhanced by suitably
choosing the physical width and the inter-modulating element spacing in the
converter. This study also highlights the encoding of quantum optical
phase-space with classical microwave constellation. Furthermore, the challenge
of inter-symbol overlap in the encoded quantum optical phase-space due to
quantum shot noise is addressed. The reported findings provide a foundational
framework for bridging classical microwave and quantum optical communication
links in the future.

We investigated the entanglement in a diluted magnetic semiconductor quantum
dot, crucial for quantum technologies. Despite their potential, these systems
exhibit low extraction rates. We explore self-assembled InGaAs quantum dots,
focusing on entanglement between them based on spin states. Our analysis
involves defining wavefunctions, employing density matrix operators, and
measuring entanglement entropy. Numerical assessments reveal few promising
pairs among various quantum dot combinations that exhibit significant
entanglement. Additionally, this work discusses theoretical developments and
statistical evaluations of entanglement in diluted magnetic semiconductor
quantum dots, providing insights into their potential for quantum applications.

Platforms based on transmission lines are nowadays employed for the
simulation of standard phenomena in quantum electrodynamics and quantum field
theory. In this work, we propose a hybrid platform, in which a right-handed
transmission line is connected to a left-handed transmission line by means of a
superconducting quantum interference device (SQUID). We examine the interaction
between the two transmission lines, as well as the excitation flow along the
composed platform. We show that, by activating specific resonance conditions,
this platform can be used as a quantum simulator of different phenomena in
quantum optics, multimode quantum systems and quantum thermodynamics.

We provide multi-player quantum data hiding based on nonlocal quantum state
ensembles arising from multi-party quantum state discrimination. Using bounds
on local minimum-error discrimination of multi-party quantum states, we
construct a multi-player quantum data-hiding scheme. Our data-hiding scheme can
be used to hide multiple bits, asymptotically, unless all the players
collaborate. We also illustrate our results by examples of nonlocal quantum
state ensembles.

In this paper we focus on the underlying quantum structure of temporal
correlations and show their peculiar nature which differentiate them from
spatial quantum correlations. With a growing interest in representation of
quantum states as topological objects, we consider quantum history bundles
based on the temporal manifold and show the source of violation of monogamous
temporal Bell-like inequalities. We introduce definitions for the mixture of
quantum histories and consider their entanglement as sections over the Hilbert
vector bundles. As a generalization of temporal Bell-like inequalities, we
derive the quantum bound for multi-time Bell-like inequalities.

Recursive techniques have recently been introduced into quantum programming
so that a variety of large quantum circuits and algorithms can be elegantly and
economically programmed. In this paper, we present a proof system for formal
verification of the correctness of recursively defined quantum circuits. The
soundness and (relative) completeness of the proof system are established. To
demonstrating its effectiveness, a series of application examples of the proof
system are given, including (multi-qubit) controlled gates, a quantum circuit
generating (multi-qubit) GHZ (Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger) states, recursive
definition of quantum Fourier transform, quantum state preparation, and quantum
random-access memories (QRAM).

In quantum thermodynamics, entropy production is usually defined in terms of
the quantum relative entropy between two states. We derive a lower bound for
the quantum entropy production in terms of the mean and variance of quantum
observables, which we will refer to as a thermodynamic uncertainty relation
(TUR) for the entropy production. In the absence of coherence between the
states, our result reproduces classic TURs in stochastic thermodynamics. For
the derivation of the TUR, we introduce a lower bound for a quantum
generalization of the $\chi^2$ divergence between two states and discuss its
implications for stochastic and quantum thermodynamics, as well as the limiting
case where it reproduces the quantum Cram\'er-Rao inequality.

Quantum batteries have significant potential applications for future industry
and daily life. The capacity is an important indicator for a battery. Methods
to improve the capacity of quantum batteries are important. We consider quantum
batteries given by bipartite quantum systems and study the enhancement of the
battery capacity under local projective measurements on a subsystem of the
quantum state. By using two-qubit Bell-diagonal states and X-type states as
examples, we show that quantum battery capacity with respect to the whole
system or a subsystem can be improved by local projective measurements. Our
theoretical analysis will provide ideas for the experimental development of
quantum batteries.

The problem of tunneling control in systems "quantum dot - quantum well" (as
well as "quantum dot - quantum dot" or quantum molecule) and "quantum dot -
bulk contact" is studied as a quantum tunneling with dissipation process in the
semiclassical (instanton) approximation. For these systems temperature and
correlation between a quantum dot radius and a quantum well width (or another
quantum dot radius) are considered to be control parameters. The condition for
a single electron blockade is found in the limit of quantum dot. The criteria
for an extreme tunneling current in quantum molecules are also presented. The
tunnel probability for systems under investigation is analytically obtained as
well.

We propose a quantum computer architecture based on quantum dots both for
short distance and for long distance communication/computation. Our scheme
exploits the natural characteristics of self-assembled quantum dots and it is
scalable. It is centered on the idea of a quantum bus based on semiconductor
self-assembled quantum dots. This allows for transmission of qubits between the
different quantum registers, and could be integrated in most of the present
proposal for semiconductor quantum dot-based quantum computation. Our proposal
exploits the peculiar properties of {\it relatively short} spin-chains, and
advantages and disadvantages of two possible implementations, both based on
spin-chain global dynamics, are discussed in details. A clear advantage of the
scheme is to avoid the use of microcavities for long distance communication
between different elements of the quantum computer. In this respect our scheme
is comparatively faster than hybrid quantum dot-microcavity schemes.

The physical concept of locality is first analyzed in the special
relativistic quantum regime, and compared with that of microcausality and the
local commutativity of quantum fields. Its extrapolation to quantum general
relativity on quantum bundles over curved spacetime is then described. It is
shown that the resulting formulation of quantum-geometric locality based on the
concept of local quantum frame incorporating a fundamental length embodies the
key geometric and topological aspects of this concept. Taken in conjunction
with the strong equivalence principle and the path-integral formulation of
quantum propagation, quantum-geometric locality leads in a natural manner to
the formulation of quantum-geometric propagation in curved spacetime. Its
extrapolation to geometric quantum gravity formulated over quantum spacetime is
described and analyzed.

Quantum mechanical systems exhibit an inherently probabilistic nature upon
measurement which excludes in principle the singular direct observability
continual case. Quantum theory of time continuous measurements and quantum
prediction theory, developed by the author on the basis of an
independent-increment model for quantum noise and nondemolition causality
principle in the 80's, solves this problem allowing continual quantum
predictions and reducing many quantum information problems like problems of
quantum feedback control to the classical stochastic ones. Using explicit
indirect observation models for diffusive and counting measurements we derive
quantum filtering (prediction) equations to describe the stochastic evolution
of the open quantum system under the continuous partial observation. Working in
parallel with classical indeterministic control theory, we show the Markov
Bellman equations for optimal feedback control of the a posteriori stochastic
quantum states conditioned upon these two kinds of measurements. The resulting
filtering and Bellman equation for the diffusive observation is then applied to
the explicitly solvable quantum linear-quadratic-Gaussian (LQG) problem which
emphasizes many similarities and differences with the corresponding classical
nonlinear filtering and control problems and demonstrates microduality between
quantum filtering and classical control.

Recently Shor showed how to perform fault tolerant quantum computation when
the error probability is logarithmically small. We improve this bound and
describe fault tolerant quantum computation when the error probability is
smaller than some constant threshold. The cost is polylogarithmic in time and
space, and no measurements are used during the quantum computation. The result
holds also for quantum circuits which operate on nearest neighbors only. To
achieve this noise resistance, we use concatenated quantum error correcting
codes. The scheme presented is general, and works with all quantum codes that
satisfy some restrictions, namely that the code is ``proper''.
  We present two explicit classes of proper quantum codes. The first example of
proper quantum codes generalizes classical secret sharing with polynomials. The
second uses a known class of quantum codes and converts it to a proper code.
This class is defined over a field with p elements, so the elementary quantum
particle is not a qubit but a ``qupit''. With our codes, the threshold is about
10^(-6). Hopefully, this paper motivates a search for proper quantum codes with
higher thresholds, at which point quantum computation becomes practical.

Quantum information and computation may serve as a source of useful axioms
and ideas for the quantum logic/quantum structures project of characterizing
and classifying types of physical theories, including quantum mechanics and
classical mechanics. The axiomatic approach of quantum structures may help
isolate what aspects of quantum mechanics are responsible for what aspects of
its greater-than-classical information processing power, and whether more
general physical theories may escape some common limitations of classical and
quantum theories. Also, by by helping us understand how existing quantum
algorithms work, quantum structures analyses may suggest new quantum protocols
exploiting general features of quantum mechanics. I stress the importance, for
these matters, of understanding open and closed-system dynamics, and the
structure of composite systems in general frameworks for operational theories,
such as effect algebras, convex sets, and related structures.

Standard quantum computation is based on sequences of unitary quantum logic
gates which process qubits. The one-way quantum computer proposed by
Raussendorf and Briegel is entirely different. It has changed our understanding
of the requirements for quantum computation and more generally how we think
about quantum physics. This new model requires qubits to be initialized in a
highly-entangled cluster state. From this point, the quantum computation
proceeds by a sequence of single-qubit measurements with classical feedforward
of their outcomes. Because of the essential role of measurement a one-way
quantum computer is irreversible. In the one-way quantum computer the order and
choices of measurements determine the algorithm computed. We have
experimentally realized four-qubit cluster states encoded into the polarization
state of four photons. We fully characterize the quantum state by implementing
the first experimental four-qubit quantum state tomography. Using this cluster
state we demonstrate the feasibility of one-way quantum computing through a
universal set of one- and two-qubit operations. Finally, our implementation of
Grover's search algorithm demonstrates that one-way quantum computation is
ideally suited for such tasks.

We describe quantum controllability under the influences of the quantum
decoherence induced by the quantum control itself. It is shown that, when the
controller is considered as a quantum system, it will entangle with its
controlled system and then cause quantum decoherence in the controlled system.
In competition with this induced decoherence, the controllability will be
limited by some uncertainty relation in a well-armed quantum control process.
In association with the phase uncertainty and the standard quantum limit, a
general model is studied to demonstrate the possibility of realizing a
decoherence-free quantum control with a finite energy within a finite time. It
is also shown that if the operations of quantum control are to be determined by
the initial state of the controller, then due to the decoherence which results
from the quantum control itself, there exists a low bound for quantum
controllability.

Quantum computation has attracted much attention, among other things, due to
its potentialities to solve classical NP problems in polynomial time. For this
reason, there has been a growing interest to build a quantum computer. One of
the basic steps is to implement the quantum circuit able to realize a given
unitary operation. This task has been solved using decomposition of unitary
matrices in simpler ones till reach quantum circuits having only single-qubits
and CNOTs gates. Usually the goal is to find the minimal quantum circuit able
to solve a given problem. In this paper we go in a different direction. We
propose a general quantum circuit able to implement any specific quantum
circuit by just setting correctly the parameters. In other words, we propose a
programmable quantum circuit. This opens the possibility to construct a real
quantum computer where several different quantum operations can be realized in
the same hardware. The configuration is proposed and its optical implementation
is discussed.

The essential insight of quantum error correction was that quantum
information can be protected by suitably encoding this quantum information
across multiple independently erred quantum systems. Recently it was realized
that, since the most general method for encoding quantum information is to
encode it into a subsystem, there exists a novel form of quantum error
correction beyond the traditional quantum error correcting subspace codes.
These new quantum error correcting subsystem codes differ from subspace codes
in that their quantum correcting routines can be considerably simpler than
related subspace codes. Here we present a class of quantum error correcting
subsystem codes constructed from two classical linear codes. These codes are
the subsystem versions of the quantum error correcting subspace codes which are
generalizations of Shor's original quantum error correcting subspace codes. For
every Shor-type code, the codes we present give a considerable savings in the
number of stabilizer measurements needed in their error recovery routines.

The physics of quantum walks on graphs is formulated in Hamiltonian language,
both for simple quantum walks and for composite walks, where extra discrete
degrees of freedom live at each node of the graph. It is shown how to map
between quantum walk Hamiltonians and Hamiltonians for qubit systems and
quantum circuits; this is done for both a single- and multi-excitation coding,
and for more general mappings. Specific examples of spin chains, as well as
static and dynamic systems of qubits, are mapped to quantum walks, and walks on
hyperlattices and hypercubes are mapped to various gate systems. We also show
how to map a quantum circuit performing the quantum Fourier transform, the key
element of Shor's algorithm, to a quantum walk system doing the same. The
results herein are an essential preliminary to a Hamiltonian formulation of
quantum walks in which coupling to a dynamic quantum environment is included.

In this work, we introduce a special kind of quantum cloning machine called
Hybrid quantum cloning machine. The introduced Hybrid quantum cloning machine
or transformation is nothing but a combination of pre-existing quantum cloning
transformations. In this sense it creates its own identity in the field of
quantum cloners. Hybrid quantum cloning machine can be of two types: (i) State
dependent and (ii) State independent or Universal. We study here the above two
types of Hybrid quantum cloning machines. Later we will show that the state
dependent hybrid quantum-cloning machine can be applied on only four input
states. We will also find in this paper another asymmetric universal quantum
cloning machine constructed from the combination of optimal universal B-H
quantum cloning machine and universal anti-cloning machine. The fidelities of
the two outputs are different and their values lie in the neighborhood of
${5/6} $

The quantum circuit model is the most widely used model of quantum
computation. It provides both a framework for formulating quantum algorithms
and an architecture for the physical construction of quantum computers.
However, several other models of quantum computation exist which provide useful
alternative frameworks for both discovering new quantum algorithms and devising
new physical implementations of quantum computers. In this thesis, I first
present necessary background material for a general physics audience and
discuss existing models of quantum computation. Then, I present three results
relating to various models of quantum computation: a scheme for improving the
intrinsic fault tolerance of adiabatic quantum computers using quantum error
detecting codes, a proof that a certain problem of estimating Jones polynomials
is complete for the one clean qubit complexity class, and a generalization of
perturbative gadgets which allows k-body interactions to be directly simulated
using 2-body interactions. Lastly, I discuss general principles regarding
quantum computation that I learned in the course of my research, and using
these principles I propose directions for future research.

It is conjectured that quantum computers are able to solve certain problems
more quickly than any deterministic or probabilistic computer. A quantum
computer exploits the rules of quantum mechanics to speed up computations.
However, it is a formidable task to build a quantum computer, since the quantum
mechanical systems storing the information unavoidably interact with their
environment. Therefore, one has to mitigate the resulting noise and decoherence
effects to avoid computational errors.
  In this work, I study various aspects of quantum error control codes -- the
key component of fault-tolerant quantum information processing. I present the
fundamental theory and necessary background of quantum codes and construct many
families of quantum block and convolutional codes over finite fields, in
addition to families of subsystem codes over symmetric and asymmetric channels.
  Particularly, many families of quantum BCH, RS, duadic, and convolutional
codes are constructed over finite fields. Families of subsystem codes and a
class of optimal MDS subsystem codes are derived over asymmetric and symmetric
quantum channels. In addition, propagation rules and tables of upper bounds on
subsystem code parameters are established. Classes of quantum and classical
LDPC codes based on finite geometries and Latin squares are constructed.

Calderbank, Rains, Shor and Sloane (see \cite{Sloane}) showed that
error-correction is possible in the context of quantum computations. Quantum
stabilizer codes are a class of additive quaternary codes in binary projective
spaces, which are self-orthogonal with respect to the symplectic form. A
geometric description is given in \cite{Bierbra}, where also the notion of
quantum cap is introduced. Quantum caps correspond to the special case of
quantum stabilizer codes of distance $d=4$ when the code is linear over GF(4).
In the present paper we review the translation from quantum error-correction to
symplectic geometry and study quantum codes in PG(4,4) where we construct
complete quantum caps with 20, 29, 30, 32, 33, 34, 36 and 38 points and
incomplete quantum caps with 10, 12, 13, 20, 23, 24, 25 and 26 points and we
prove the non existence of 11-quantum caps. In particular the quantum caps of
sizes 36 and 38 yield positive answers to the existence questions of quantum
codes $[[36,26,4]]$ and $[[38,28,4]]$ that remained open in the data base
\cite{codetable}.

Quantum discord, a kind of quantum correlation, is defined as the difference
between quantum mutual information and classical correlation in a bipartite
system. In general, this correlation is different from entanglement, and
quantum discord may be nonzero even for certain separable states. Even in the
simple case of bipartite quantum systems, this different kind of quantum
correlation has interesting and significant applications in quantum information
processing. So far, quantum discord has been calculated explicitly only for a
rather limited set of two-qubit quantum states and expressions for more general
quantum states are not known. In this paper, we derive explicit expressions for
quantum discord for a larger class of two-qubit states, namely, a
seven-parameter family of so called X-states that have been of interest in a
variety of contexts in the field. We also study the relation between quantum
discord, classical correlation, and entanglement for a number of two-qubit
states to demonstrate that they are independent measures of correlation with no
simple relative ordering between them.

Quantum memory is important to quantum information processing in many ways: a
synchronization device to match various processes within a quantum computer, an
identity quantum gate that leaves any state unchanged, and a tool to convert
heralded photons to photons-on-demand. In addition to quantum computing,
quantum memory would be instrumental for the implementation of long-distance
quantum communication using quantum repeaters. The importance of this basic
quantum gate is exemplified by the multitude of optical quantum memory
mechanisms being studied: optical delay lines, cavities,
electromagnetically-induced transparency, photon-echo, and off-resonant Faraday
interaction. Here we report on the state-of-the-art in the field of optical
quantum memory, including criteria for successful quantum memory and current
performance levels.

In a previous paper, we showed how one can obtain from the action of a
locally compact quantum group on a type I-factor a possibly new locally compact
quantum group. In another paper, we applied this construction method to the
action of quantum SU(2) on the standard Podles sphere to obtain Woronowicz'
quantum E(2). In this paper, we will apply this technique to the action of
quantum SU(2) on the quantum projective plane (whose associated von Neumann
algebra is indeed a type I-factor). The locally compact quantum group which
then comes out at the other side turns out to be the extended SU(1,1) quantum
group, as constructed by Koelink and Kustermans. We also show that there exists
a (non-trivial) quantum groupoid which has at its corners (the duals of) the
three quantum groups mentioned above.

Quantum supermaps are higher-order maps transforming quantum operations into
quantum operations. Here we extend the theory of quantum supermaps, originally
formulated in the finite dimensional setting, to the case of higher-order maps
transforming quantum operations with input in a separable von Neumann algebra
and output in the algebra of the bounded operators on a given separable Hilbert
space. In this setting we prove two dilation theorems for quantum supermaps
that are the analogues of the Stinespring and Radon-Nikodym theorems for
quantum operations. Finally, we consider the case of quantum superinstruments,
namely measures with values in the set of quantum supermaps, and derive a
dilation theorem for them that is analogue to Ozawa's theorem for quantum
instruments. The three dilation theorems presented here show that all the
supermaps defined in this paper can be implemented by connecting devices in
quantum circuits.

Discrete quantum walks are dynamical protocols for controlling a single
quantum particle. Despite of its simplicity, quantum walks display rich
topological phenomena and provide one of the simplest systems to study and
understand topological phases. In this article, we review the physics of
discrete quantum walks in one and two dimensions in light of topological
phenomena and provide elementary explanations of topological phases and their
physical consequence, namely the existence of boundary states. We demonstrate
that quantum walks are versatile systems that simulate many topological phases
whose classifications are known for static Hamiltonians. Furthermore,
topological phenomena appearing in quantum walks go beyond what has been known
in static systems; there are phenomena unique to quantum walks, being an
example of periodically driven systems, that do not exist in static systems.
Thus the quantum walks not only provide a powerful tool as a quantum simulator
for static topological phases but also give unique opportunity to study
topological phenomena in driven systems.

We considered the interaction of semiconductor quantum register with noisy
environment leading to various types of qubit errors. We analysed both phase
and amplitude decays during the process of electron-phonon interaction. The
performance of quantum error correction codes (QECC) which will be inevitably
used in full scale quantum information processors was studied in realistic
conditions in semiconductor nanostructures. As a hardware basis for quantum bit
we chose the quantum spatial states of single electron in semiconductor coupled
double quantum dot system. The modified 5- and 9-qubit quantum error correction
(QEC) algorithms by Shor and DiVincenzo without error syndrome extraction were
applied to quantum register. 5-qubit error correction procedures were
implemented for Si charge double dot qubits in the presence of acoustic phonon
environment. Chi-matrix, Choi-Jamiolkowski state and measure of decoherence
techniques were used to quantify qubit fault-tolerance. Our results showed that
the introduction of above quantum error correction techniques at small phonon
noise levels provided quadratic improvement of output error rates. The
efficiency of 5-qubits quantum error correction algorithm in semiconductor
quantum information processors was demonstrated.

Weak measurements cause small change to quantum states, thereby opening up
the possibility of new ways of manipulating and controlling quantum systems. We
ask, can weak measurements reveal more quantum correlation in a composite
quantum state? We prove that the weak measurement induced quantum discord,
called as the "super quantum discord", is always larger than the quantum
discord captured by the strong measurement. Moreover, we prove the monotonicity
of the super quantum discord as a function of the measurement strength. We find
that unlike the normal quantum discord, for pure entangled states, the super
quantum discord can exceed the quantum entanglement. Our result shows that the
notion of quantum correlation is not only observer dependent but also depends
on how weakly one perturbs the composite system.

Integrated quantum photonics provides a promising route towards scalable
solid-state implementations of quantum networks, quantum computers, and
ultra-low power opto-electronic devices. A key component for many of these
applications is the photonic quantum logic gate, where the quantum state of a
solid-state quantum bit (qubit) conditionally controls the state of a photonic
qubit. These gates are crucial for development of robust quantum networks,
non-destructive quantum measurements, and strong photon-photon interactions.
Here we experimentally realize a quantum logic gate between an optical photon
and a solid-state qubit. The qubit is composed of a quantum dot (QD) strongly
coupled to a nano-cavity, which acts as a coherently controllable qubit system
that conditionally flips the polarization of a photon on picosecond timescales,
implementing a controlled-NOT (cNOT) gate. Our results represent an important
step towards solid-state quantum networks and provide a versatile approach for
probing QD-photon interactions on ultra-fast timescales.

Quantum Zeno effect shows that frequent observations can slow down or even
stop the unitary time evolution of an unstable quantum system. This effect can
also be regarded as a physical consequence of the the statistical
indistinguishability of neighboring quantum states. The accessibility of
quantum Zeno dynamics under unitary time evolution can be quantitatively
estimated by quantum Zeno time in terms of Fisher information. In this work, we
investigate the accessibility of quantum Zeno dynamics in quantum open systems
by calculating noisy Fisher information, in which a trace preserving and
completely positive map is assumed. We firstly study the consequences of
non-Markovian noise on quantum Zeno effect and give the exact forms of the
dissipative Fisher information and the quantum Zeno time. Then, for the
operator-sum representation, an achievable upper bound of the quantum Zeno time
is given with the help of the results in noisy quantum metrology. It is of
significance that the noise affecting the accuracy in the entanglement-enhanced
parameter estimation can conversely be favorable for the accessibility of
quantum Zeno dynamics of entangled states.

Quantum decoherence is seen as an undesired source of irreversibility that
destroys quantum resources. Quantum coherences seem to be a property that
vanishes at thermodynamic equilibrium. Away from equilibrium, quantum
coherences challenge the classical notions of a thermodynamic bath in a Carnot
engines, affect the efficiency of quantum transport, lead to violations of
Fourier's law, and can be used to dynamically control the temperature of a
state. However, the role of quantum coherence in thermodynamics is not fully
understood. Here we show that the relative entropy of a state with quantum
coherence with respect to its decohered state captures its deviation from
thermodynamic equilibrium. As a result, changes in quantum coherence can lead
to a heat flow with no associated temperature, and affect the entropy
production rate. From this, we derive a quantum version of the Onsager
reciprocal relations that shows that there is a reciprocal relation between
thermodynamic forces from coherence and quantum transport. Quantum decoherence
can be useful and offers new possibilities of thermodynamic control for quantum
transport.

At the primary level of reality as described by quantum field theory, a
fundamental particle like an electron represents a stable, discrete,
propagating excited state of its underlying quantum field. QFT also tells us
that the lowest vacuum state as well as the excited states of such a field is
always very active with spontaneous, unpredictable quantum fluctuations. Also
an underlying quantum field is known to be indestructible and immutable
possessing the same value in each element of spacetime comprising the universe.
These characteristics of the primary quantum fields together with the fact that
the quantum fluctuations can be cogently substantiated to be quantum coherent
throughout the universe provide a possible ontology of the quantum theory. In
this picture, the wave function of a quantum particle represents the reality of
the inherent quantum fluctuations at the core of the universe and endows the
particle its counter intuitive quantum behavior.

We consider compact matrix quantum groups whose fundamental corepresentation
matrix has entries which are partial isometries with central support. We show
that such quantum groups have a simple representation as semi-direct product
quantum groups of a group dual quantum group by an action of a permutation
group. This general result allows us to completely classify easy quantum groups
with the above property by certain reflection groups. We give four applications
of our result. First, there are uncountably many easy quantum groups. Second,
there are non-easy quantum groups between the free orthogonal quantum group and
the permutation group. Third, we study operator algebraic properties of the
hyperoctahedral series. Finally, we prove a generalised de Finetti theorem for
easy quantum groups in the scope of this article.

We introduce the term smooth entanglement entropy transfer, a phenomenon that
is a consequence of the causality-cancellation property of the quantum gravity
environment. The causality-cancellation of the quantum gravity space removes
the causal dependencies of the local systems. We study the physical effects of
the causality-cancellation and show that it stimulates entropy transfer between
the quantum gravity environment and the independent local systems of the
quantum gravity space. The entropy transfer reduces the entropies of the
contributing local systems and increases the entropy of the quantum gravity
environment. We discuss the space-time geometry structure of the quantum
gravity environment and the local quantum systems. We propose the space-time
geometry model of the smooth entropy transfer. We reveal on a smooth Cauchy
slice that the space-time geometry of the quantum gravity environment
dynamically adapts to the vanishing causality. We define the corresponding
Hamiltonians and the causal development of the quantum gravity environment in a
non-fixed causality structure. We prove that the Cauchy area expansion, along
with the dilation of the Rindler horizon area of the quantum gravity
environment, is a strict corollary of the causality-cancellation of the quantum
gravity environment.

Current approaches for building quantum computing devices focus on two-level
quantum systems which nicely mimic the concept of a classical bit, albeit
enhanced with additional quantum properties. However, rather than artificially
limiting the number of states to two, the use of d-level quantum systems
(qudits) could provide advantages for quantum information processing. Among
other merits, it has recently been shown that multi-level quantum systems can
offer increased stability to external disturbances - a key problem in current
technologies. In this study we demonstrate that topological quantum memories
built from qudits, also known as abelian quantum double models, exhibit a
substantially increased resilience to noise. That is, even when taking into
account the multitude of errors possible for multi-level quantum systems,
topological quantum error correction codes employing qudits can sustain a
larger error rate than their two-level counterparts. In particular, we find
strong numerical evidence that the thresholds of these error-correction codes
are given by the hashing bound. Considering the significantly increased error
thresholds attained, this might well outweigh the added complexity of
engineering and controlling higher dimensional quantum systems.

Quantum discord quantifies quantum correlation between quantum systems, which
has potential application in quantum information processing. In this paper, we
propose a scheme realizing the remote transfer of Gaussian quantum discord, in
which another quantum discordant state or an Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen entangled
state serves as ancillary state. The calculation shows that two independent
optical modes that without direct interaction become quantum correlated after
the transfer. The output Gaussian quantum discord can be higher than the
initial Gaussian quantum discord when optimal gain of the classical channel and
the ancillary state are chosen. The physical reason for this result comes from
the fact that the quantum discord of an asymmetric Gaussian quantum discordant
state can be higher than that of a symmetric one. The presented scheme has
potential application in quantum information network.

We argue that a quantum annealer at very long annealing times is likely to
experience a quasistatic evolution, returning a final population that is close
to a Boltzmann distribution of the Hamiltonian at a single (freeze-out) point
during the annealing. Such a system is expected to correlate well with a proper
quantum Monte Carlo simulation. It may also correlate with simulated annealing
if at the freeze-out point the quantum energy eigenvalues are close to the
classical ones. These correlations are just signatures of equilibration and do
not mean that the evolution of the quantum annealer is classical or can be
simulated by quantum Monte Carlo. The computation time extracted from such a
distribution reflects the equilibrium behavior and therefore provides no
information about the underlying quantum dynamics. This makes the search for
quantum speedup in suboptimal quantum annealers problematic. We use an open
quantum master equation with realistic parameters to illustrate quasistatic
evolution in a 16 qubit quantum annealer and discuss its implication for
quantum speedup.

It is well-known in quantum information theory that a positive operator
valued measure (POVM) is the most general kind of quantum measurement.
Mathematically, a quantum probability is a normalised POVM, namely a function
on certain subsets of a (locally compact and Hausdorff) sample space that
satisfies the formal requirements for a probability measure and whose values
are positive operators acting on a complex Hilbert space. A quantum random
variable is an operator valued function which is measurable with respect to a
quantum probability. In the present work, we study quantum random variables and
generalize several classical limit results to the quantum setting. We prove a
quantum analogue of the Lebesgue dominated convergence theorem and use it to
prove a quantum martingale convergence theorem. This quantum martingale
convergence theorem is of particular interest since it exhibits non-classical
behaviour; even though the limit of the martingale exists and is unique, it is
not explicitly identifiable. However, we provide a partial classification of
the limit through a study of the space of all quantum random variables having
quantum expectation zero.

Recent improvements in control of quantum systems make it seem feasible to
finally build a quantum computer within a decade. While it has been shown that
such a quantum computer can in principle solve certain small electronic
structure problems and idealized model Hamiltonians, the highly relevant
problem of directly solving a complex correlated material appears to require a
prohibitive amount of resources. Here, we show that by using a hybrid
quantum-classical algorithm that incorporates the power of a small quantum
computer into a framework of classical embedding algorithms, the electronic
structure of complex correlated materials can be efficiently tackled using a
quantum computer. In our approach, the quantum computer solves a small
effective quantum impurity problem that is self-consistently determined via a
feedback loop between the quantum and classical computation. Use of a quantum
computer enables much larger and more accurate simulations than with any known
classical algorithm, and will allow many open questions in quantum materials to
be resolved once a small quantum computer with around one hundred logical
qubits becomes available.

Quantum Information Processing, which is an exciting area of research at the
intersection of physics and computer science, has great potential for
influencing the future development of information processing systems. The
building of practical, general purpose Quantum Computers may be some years into
the future. However, Quantum Communication and Quantum Cryptography are well
developed. Commercial Quantum Key Distribution systems are easily available and
several QKD networks have been built in various parts of the world. The
security of the protocols used in these implementations rely on
information-theoretic proofs, which may or may not reflect actual system
behaviour. Moreover, testing of implementations cannot guarantee the absence of
bugs and errors. This paper presents a novel framework for modelling and
verifying quantum protocols and their implementations using the proof assistant
Coq. We provide a Coq library for quantum bits (qubits), quantum gates, and
quantum measurement. As a step towards verifying practical quantum
communication and security protocols such as Quantum Key Distribution, we
support multiple qubits, communication and entanglement. We illustrate these
concepts by modelling the Quantum Teleportation Protocol, which communicates
the state of an unknown quantum bit using only a classical channel.

Quantum light-matter interfaces are at the heart of photonic quantum
technologies. Quantum memories for photons, where non-classical states of
photons are mapped onto stationary matter states and preserved for subsequent
retrieval, are technical realizations enabled by exquisite control over
interactions between light and matter. The ability of quantum memories to
synchronize probabilistic events makes them a key component in quantum
repeaters and quantum computation based on linear optics. This critical feature
has motivated many groups to dedicate theoretical and experimental research to
develop quantum memory devices. In recent years, exciting new applications, and
more advanced developments of quantum memories, have proliferated. In this
review, we outline some of the emerging applications of quantum memories in
optical signal processing, quantum computation, and nonlinear optics. We review
recent experimental and theoretical developments, and their impacts on more
advanced photonic quantum technologies based on quantum memories.

Building on a recent proposal for a quantum reduction to spherical symmetry
from full loop quantum gravity, we investigate the relation between a
quantisation of spherically symmetric general relativity and a reduction at the
quantum level. To this end, we generalise the previously proposed quantum
reduction by dropping the gauge fixing condition on the radial diffeomorphisms,
thus allowing to make direct contact between previous work on reduced
quantisation. A dictionary between spherically symmetric variables and
observables with respect to the reduction constraints in the full theory is
discussed, as well as an embedding of reduced quantum states to a sub sector of
the quantum symmetry reduced full theory states. On this full theory sub
sector, the quantum algebra of the mentioned observables is computed and shown
to qualitatively reproduce the quantum algebra of the reduced variables in the
large quantum number limit for a specific choice of regularisation.
Insufficiencies in recovering the reduced algebra quantitatively from the full
theory are attributed to the oversimplified full theory quantum states we use.

We discuss the role that intuitive theories of physics play in the
interpretation of quantum mechanics. We compare and contrast na\"ive physics
with quantum mechanics and argue that quantum mechanics is not just hard to
understand but that it is difficult to believe, often appearing magical in
nature. Quantum mechanics is often discussed in the context of "quantum
weirdness" and quantum entanglement is known as "spooky action at a distance."
This spookiness is more than just because quantum mechanics doesn't match
everyday experience; it ruffles the feathers of our na\"ive physics cognitive
module. In Everett's many-worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics, we
preserve a form of deterministic thinking that can alleviate some of the
perceived weirdness inherent in other interpretations of quantum mechanics, at
the cost of having the universe split into parallel worlds at every quantum
measurement. By examining the role cognitive modules play in interpreting
quantum mechanics, we conclude that the many-worlds interpretation of quantum
mechanics involves a cognitive bias not seen in the Copenhagen interpretation.

Quantum information theory determines the maximum rates at which information
can be transmitted through physical systems described by quantum mechanics.
Here we consider the communication protocol known as quantum reading. Quantum
reading is a protocol for retrieving the information stored in a digital memory
by using a quantum probe, e.g., shining quantum states of light to read an
optical memory. In a variety of situations using a quantum probe enhances the
performances of the reading protocol in terms of fidelity, data density and
energy dissipation. Here we review and characterize the quantum reading
capacity of a memory model, defined as the maximum rate of reliable reading. We
show that, like other quantities in quantum information theory, the quantum
reading capacity is super-additive. Moreover, we determine conditions under
which the use of an entangled ancilla improves the performance of quantum
reading.

The author's attempt to construct a local causal model of quantum theory (QT)
that includes quantum field theory (QFT) resulted in the identification of
"quantum objects" as the elementary units of causality and locality. Quantum
objects are collections of particles (including single particles) whose
collective dynamics and measurement results can only be described by the laws
of QT and QFT. Local causal models of quantum objects' internal dynamics are
not possible if a locality is understood as a space-point locality. Within
quantum objects, state transitions may occur which instantly affect the whole
quantum object. The identification of quantum objects as the elementary units
of causality and locality has two primary implications for a causal model of
quantum objects: (1) quantum objects run autonomously with system-state update
frequencies based on their local proper times and with either no or minimal
dependency on external parameters. (2) The laws of physics that describe global
(but relativistic) interrelationships must be translated to a causal model of
interactions between quantum objects and interactions between quantum objects
and the space.

Quantum channels can describe all transformations allowed by quantum
mechanics. We provide an explicit universal protocol to construct all possible
quantum channels, using a single qubit ancilla with quantum non-demolition
readout and adaptive control. Our construction is efficient in both physical
resources and circuit depth, and can be demonstrated using superconducting
circuits and various other physical platforms. There are many applications of
quantum channel construction, including system stabilization and quantum error
correction, Markovian and exotic channel simulation, implementation of
generalized quantum measurements and more general quantum instruments.
Efficient construction of arbitrary quantum channels opens up exciting new
possibilities for quantum control, quantum sensing and information processing
tasks.

Often quantum systems are not isolated and interactions with their
environments must be taken into account. In such open quantum systems these
environmental interactions can lead to decoherence and dissipation, which have
a marked influence on the properties of the quantum system. In many instances
the environment is well-approximated by classical mechanics, so that one is led
to consider the dynamics of open quantum-classical systems. Since a full
quantum dynamical description of large many-body systems is not currently
feasible, mixed quantum-classical methods can provide accurate and
computationally tractable ways to follow the dynamics of both the system and
its environment. This review focuses on quantum-classical Liouville dynamics,
one of several quantum-classical descriptions, and discusses the problems that
arise when one attempts to combine quantum and classical mechanics, coherence
and decoherence in quantum-classical systems, nonadiabatic dynamics,
surface-hopping and mean-field theories and their relation to quantum-classical
Liouville dynamics, as well as methods for simulating the dynamics.

Originating in questions regarding work extraction from quantum systems
coupled to a heat bath, quantum deficit, a kind of quantum correlations besides
entanglement and quantum discord, links quantum thermodynamics with quantum
correlations. In this paper, we evaluate the one-way deficit of two adjacent
spins in the bulk for the $XY$ model and its extend model: the extended Ising
model. We find that the one-way deficit susceptibility is able to characterize
the quantum phase transitions in the $XY$ model and even the topological phase
transitions in the extend Ising model. This study may enlighten extensive
studies of quantum phase transitions from the perspective of quantum
information processing and quantum computation, including finite-temperature
phase transitions, topological phase transitions and dynamical phase
transitions of a variety of quantum many-body systems.

In this paper we present a method for minimizing reversible quantum circuits
using the Quantum Operator Form (QOF); a new representation of quantum circuit
and of quantum-realized reversible circuits based on the CNOT, CV and
CV$^\dagger$ quantum gates. The proposed form is a quantum extension to the
well known Reed-Muller but unlike the Reed-Muller form, the QOF allows the
usage of different quantum gates. Therefore QOF permits minimization of quantum
circuits by using properties of different gates than only the multi-control
Toffoli gates. We introduce a set of minimization rules and a pseudo-algorithm
that can be used to design circuits with the CNOT, CV and CV$^\dagger$ quantum
gates. We show how the QOF can be used to minimize reversible quantum circuits
and how the rules allow to obtain exact realizations using the above mentioned
quantum gates.

The total correlations in a bipartite quantum system are measured by the
quantum mutual information $\mathcal{I}$, which consists of quantum discord and
classical correlation. However, recent results in quantum information shows
that coherence, which is a part of total correlation, is more general and more
fundamental than discord. The role of coherence in quantum resource theories is
worthwhile to investigate. We first study the relation between quantum discord
and coherence by reducing the difference between them. And then, we consider
the dynamics of quantum discord, classical correlations and quantum coherence
under incoherent quantum channels. We discover that coherence indicate the
behavior of quantum discord (classical correlation) for times $t<\bar t$, and
indicate the decoherence of classical correlation (quantum discord) for times
$t>\bar t$. What is more, the coherence frozen and decay indicate the quantum
discord and classical correlation frozen and decay respectively.

The generation and distribution of quantum correlations between photonic
qubits is a key resource in quantum information science. For applications in
quantum networks and quantum repeaters, it is required that these quantum
correlations be stored in a quantum memory. In 2001, Duan, Lukin, Cirac, and
Zoller (DLCZ) proposed a scheme combining a correlated photon-pair source and a
quantum memory in atomic gases, which has enabled fast progress towards
elementary quantum networks. In this letter, we demonstrate a solid state
source of correlated photon pairs with embedded spin-wave quantum memory, using
a rare-earth doped crystal. We show strong quantum orrelations between the
photons, high enough for performing quantum communication. Unlike the original
DLCZ proposal, our scheme is inherently multimode thanks to a built-in
rephasing mechanism, allowing us to demonstrate storage of 11 temporal modes.
These results represent an important step towards the realization of complex
quantum networks architectures using solid-state resources.

The study of quantum channels is the fundamental field and promises wide
range of applications, because any physical process can be represented as a
quantum channel transforming an initial state into a final state. Inspired by
the method performing non-unitary operator by the linear combination of unitary
operations, we proposed a quantum algorithm for the simulation of universal
single-qubit channel, described by a convex combination of 'quasiextreme'
channels corresponding to four Kraus operators, and is scalable to arbitrary
higher dimension. We demonstrate the whole algorithm experimentally using the
universal IBM cloud quantum computer and study properties of different qubit
quantum channels. We illustrate the quantum capacity of the general qubit
quantum channels, which quantifies the amount of quantum information that can
be protected. The behaviour of quantum capacity in different channels reveal
which types of noise processes can support information transmission, and which
types are too destructive to protect information. There is a general agreement
between the theoretical predictions and the experiments, which strongly
supported our method. By realizing arbitrary qubit channel, this work provides
a universal way to explore various properties of quantum channel and novel
prospect of quantum communication.

Recently, the concept on `forgeable quantum messages' in arbitrated quantum
signature schemes was introduced by T. Kim et al. [Phys. Scr., 90, 025101
(2015)], and it has been shown that there always exists such a forgeable
quantum message for every known arbitrated quantum signature scheme with four
quantum encryption operators and the specific two rotation operators. We first
extend the result to the case of any two unitary rotation operators, and then
consider the forgeable quantum messages in the schemes with four quantum
encryption operators and three or more rotation operators. We here present a
necessary and sufficient condition for existence of a forgeable quantum
message, and moreover, by employing the condition, show that there exists an
arbitrated quantum signature scheme which contains no forgeable quantum
message-signature pairs.

Anomaly detection is used for identifying data that deviate from `normal'
data patterns. Its usage on classical data finds diverse applications in many
important areas like fraud detection, medical diagnoses, data cleaning and
surveillance. With the advent of quantum technologies, anomaly detection of
quantum data, in the form of quantum states, may become an important component
of quantum applications. Machine learning algorithms are playing pivotal roles
in anomaly detection using classical data. Two widely-used algorithms are
kernel principal component analysis and one-class support vector machine. We
find corresponding quantum algorithms to detect anomalies in quantum states. We
show that these two quantum algorithms can be performed using resources
logarithmic in the dimensionality of quantum states. For pure quantum states,
these resources can also be logarithmic in the number of quantum states used
for training the machine learning algorithm. This makes these algorithms
potentially applicable to big quantum data applications.

This paper describes a quantum programming environment, named $Q|SI\rangle$.
It is a platform embedded in the .Net language that supports quantum
programming using a quantum extension of the $\mathbf{while}$-language. The
framework of the platform includes a compiler of the quantum
$\mathbf{while}$-language and a suite of tools for simulating quantum
computation, optimizing quantum circuits, and analyzing and verifying quantum
programs. Throughout the paper, using $Q|SI\rangle$ to simulate quantum
behaviors on classical platforms with a combination of components is
demonstrated. The scalable framework allows the user to program customized
functions on the platform. The compiler works as the core of $Q|SI\rangle$
bridging the gap from quantum hardware to quantum software. The built-in
decomposition algorithms enable the universal quantum computation on the
present quantum hardware.

We experimentally simulate the spin networks -- a fundamental description of
quantum spacetime at the Planck level. We achieve this by simulating quantum
tetrahedra and their interactions. The tensor product of these quantum
tetrahedra comprises spin networks. In this initial attempt to study quantum
spacetime by quantum information processing, on a four-qubit nuclear magnetic
resonance quantum simulator, we simulate the basic module -- comprising five
quantum tetrahedra -- of the interactions of quantum spacetime. By measuring
the geometric properties on the corresponding quantum tetrahedra and simulate
their interactions, our experiment serves as the basic module that represents
the Feynman diagram vertex in the spin-network formulation of quantum
spacetime.

Topological quantum computers promise a fault tolerant means to perform
quantum computation. Topological quantum computers use particles with exotic
exchange statistics called non-Abelian anyons, and the simplest anyon model
which allows for universal quantum computation by particle exchange or braiding
alone is the Fibonacci anyon model. One classically hard problem that can be
solved efficiently using quantum computation is finding the value of the Jones
polynomial of knots at roots of unity. We aim to provide a pedagogical,
self-contained, review of topological quantum computation with Fibonacci
anyons, from the braiding statistics and matrices to the layout of such a
computer and the compiling of braids to perform specific operations. Then we
use a simulation of a topological quantum computer to explicitly demonstrate a
quantum computation using Fibonacci anyons, evaluating the Jones polynomial of
a selection of simple knots. In addition to simulating a modular circuit-style
quantum algorithm, we also show how the magnitude of the Jones polynomial at
specific points could be obtained exactly using Fibonacci or Ising anyons. Such
an exact algorithm seems ideally suited for a proof of concept demonstration of
a topological quantum computer.

We characterize quantumness of the so-called quantum walks (whose dynamics is
governed by quantum mechanics) by introducing two computable measures which are
stronger than the variance of the walker's position probability distribution.
The first measure is based on comparing probability distributions of a quantum
walk and all classical random walks (through the classical relative entropy of
the distributions), and it quantifies non-Gaussianity of the probability
distribution of the walk. Next, after assigning a density matrix to classical
walks, we introduce a more powerful measure by employing quantum relative
entropy. We show that this measure exceeds the first one by the quantum
coherence of the walk. There are walks labeled classical by the variance
whereas our measures identify some quantumness therein. As an application, we
study a model of quantum (energy) transport on a simple lattice, and compare
the behavior of its relative transport efficiencies with that of the
quantumness. Our measures help partly explain why in some quantum transport
phenomena a considerably high efficiency may appear---this is where quantumness
is appreciable.

Motivated by the question whether quantum gravity can "smear out" the
classical singularity we analyze a certain quantum space and its
quantum-mechanical completeness. Classical singularity is understood as a
geodesic incompleteness, while quantum completeness requires a unique unitary
time evolution for test fields propagating on an underlying background. Here
the crucial point is that quantum completeness renders the Hamiltonian (or
spatial part of the wave operator) to be essentially self-adjoint in order to
generate a unique time evolution. We examine a model of quantum space which
consists of a noncommutative BTZ black hole probed by a test scalar field. We
show that the quantum gravity (noncommutative) effect is to enlarge the domain
of BTZ parameters for which the relevant wave operator is essentially
self-adjoint. This means that the corresponding quantum space is quantum
complete for a larger range of BTZ parameters rendering the conclusion that in
the quantum space one observes the effect of "smearing out" the singularity.

Quantum computing exploits quantum phenomena such as superposition and
entanglement to realize a form of parallelism that is not available to
traditional computing. It offers the potential of significant computational
speed-ups in quantum chemistry, materials science, cryptography, and machine
learning. The dominant approach to programming quantum computers is to provide
an existing high-level language with libraries that allow for the expression of
quantum programs. This approach can permit computations that are meaningless in
a quantum context; prohibits succinct expression of interaction between
classical and quantum logic; and does not provide important constructs that are
required for quantum programming. We present Q#, a quantum-focused
domain-specific language explicitly designed to correctly, clearly and
completely express quantum algorithms. Q# provides a type system, a tightly
constrained environment to safely interleave classical and quantum
computations; specialized syntax, symbolic code manipulation to automatically
generate correct transformations of quantum operations, and powerful functional
constructs which aid composition.

Quantum router is an essential ingredient in a quantum network. Here, we
propose a new quantum circuit for designing quantum router by using IBM's
five-qubit quantum computer. We design an equivalent quantum circuit, by the
means of single-qubit and two-qubit quantum gates, which can perform the
operation of a quantum router. Here, we show the routing of signal information
in two different paths (two signal qubits) which is directed by a control
qubit. According to the process of routing, the signal information is found to
be in a coherent superposition of two paths. We demonstrate the quantum nature
of the router by illustrating the entanglement between the control qubit and
the two signal qubits (two paths), and confirm the well preservation of the
signal information in either of the two paths after the routing process. We
perform quantum state tomography to verify the generation of entanglement and
preservation of information. It is found that the experimental results are
obtained with good fidelity.

Yao (1993) proved that quantum Turing machines and uniformly generated
quantum circuits are polynomially equivalent computational models: $t \geq n$
steps of a quantum Turing machine running on an input of length $n$ can be
simulated by a uniformly generated family of quantum circuits with size
quadratic in $t$, and a polynomial-time uniformly generated family of quantum
circuits can be simulated by a quantum Turing machine running in polynomial
time. We revisit the simulation of quantum Turing machines with uniformly
generated quantum circuits, which is the more challenging of the two simulation
tasks, and present a variation on the simulation method employed by Yao
together with an analysis of it. This analysis reveals that the simulation of
quantum Turing machines can be performed by quantum circuits having depth
linear in $t$, rather than quadratic depth, and can be extended to variants of
quantum Turing machines, such as ones having multi-dimensional tapes. Our
analysis is based on an extension of a method of Arrighi, Nesme, and Werner
(2011) that allows for the localization of causal unitary evolutions.

Quantum teleportation of an unknown quantum state is one of the few
communication tasks which has no classical counterpart. Usually the aim of
teleportation is to send an unknown quantum state to a receiver. But is it
possible in some way that the receiver's state has more quantum discord than
the sender's state? We look at a scenario where Alice and Bob share a pure
quantum state and Alice has an unknown quantum state. She performs joint
measurement on her qubits and channel to prepare Bob's qubits in a mixed state
which has higher quantum discord than hers. We also observe an interesting
feature in this scenario, when the quantum discord of Alice's qubits increases,
then the quantum discord of Bob's prepared qubits decreases. Furthermore, we
show that the fidelity of one-qubit quantum teleportation using Bob's prepared
qubits as the channel is higher than using Alice's qubits.

Quantum circuits for basic image processing functions such as bilinear
interpolation are required to implement image processing algorithms on quantum
computers. In this work, we propose quantum circuits for the bilinear
interpolation of NEQR encoded images based on Clifford+T gates. Quantum
circuits for the scale up operation and scale down operation are illustrated.
The proposed quantum circuits are based on quantum Clifford+T gates and are
optimized for T-count. Quantum circuits based on Clifford+T gates can be made
fault tolerant but the T gate is very costly to implement. As a result,
reducing T-count is an important optimization goal. The proposed quantum
bilinear interpolation circuits are based on (i) a quantum adder, (ii) a
proposed quantum subtractor, and (iii) a quantum multiplication circuit.
Further, both designs are compared and shown to be superior to existing work in
terms of T-count. The proposed quantum bilinear interpolation circuits for the
scale down operation and for the scale up operation each have a $92.52\%$
improvement in terms of T-count compared to the existing work.

In this paper we present Quanrum Encoded Quantum Evolutionary Algorithm
(QEQEA) and compare its performance against a a classical GPU accelerated
Genetic Algorithm (GPUGA). The proposed QEQEA differs from existing quantum
evolutionary algorithms in several points: representation of candidates
circuits is using qubits and qutrits and the proposed evolutionary operators
can in theory be implemented on quantum computer provided a classical control
exists. The synthesized circuits are obtained by a set of measurements
performed on the encoding units of quantum representation. Both algorithms are
accelerated in GPGPU. The main target of this paper, is not to propose a
completely novel quantum genetic algorithm but to rather experimentally
estimate the advantages of certain components of genetic algorithm being
encoded and implemented in a quantum compatible manner. The algorithms are
compared and evaluated on several reversible and quantum circuits. The results
demonstrate that on one hand the quantum encoding and quantum implementation
compatible implementation provides certain disadvantages with respect to the
classical evolutionary computation. On the other hand, encoding certain
components in a quantum compatible manner could in theory allow to accelerate
the search. This acceleration would in turn counter weight the implementation
limitations.

A comparative study of pairwise quantum coherence, quantum and classical
correlations is addressed for non-nearest spin pairs of the 1D Heisenberg
spin-$\frac{1}{2}$ XX chain. Following the Jordan-Wigner mapping, we
diagonalise the hamiltonian of the chain and we check this procedure
numerically as well. Using the "Pauli basis expansion" formalism we get the
pairwise quantities studied in this work at any distance. We then, show the
role of quantum correlations in revealing quantum phase transitions, the
robustness of quantum discord to the temperature and the dominance of quantum
correlations over their classical counterpart in the magnetic and thermal
interval in quantum spin chains. We conclude the paper by shedding light from a
resource-driven point of view on the new born quantity "quantum coherence"
where we discuss its role in detecting quantum phase transitions being a
long-range quantity, and how it outclasses the usual quantum correlations
measures in the robustness against the temperature, which indicates potential
uses in the framework of quantum information processing.

This paper presents the thermal interpretation of quantum physics. The
insight from Part I of this series that Born's rule has its limitations --
hence cannot be the foundation of quantum physics -- opens the way for an
alternative interpretation -- the thermal interpretation of quantum physics. It
gives new foundations that connect quantum physics (including quantum
mechanics, statistical mechanics, quantum field theory and their applications)
to experiment. The thermal interpretation resolves the problems of the
foundations of quantum physics revealed in the critique from Part I of this
series. It improves the traditional foundations in several respects:
  * The thermal interpretation reflects the actual practice of quantum physics,
especially regarding its macroscopic implications.
  * The thermal interpretation gives a fair account of the interpretational
differences between quantum mechanics and quantum field theory.
  * The thermal interpretation gives a natural, realistic meaning to the
standard formalism of quantum mechanics and quantum field theory in a single
world, without introducing additional hidden variables.
  * The thermal interpretation is independent of the measurement problem. The
latter becomes a precise problem in statistical mechanics rather than a fuzzy
and problematic notion in the foundations. Details will be discussed in Part
III.

In this work, we propose the first quantum Ans\"atze for the statistical
relational learning on knowledge graphs using parametric quantum circuits. We
introduce two types of variational quantum circuits for knowledge graph
embedding. Inspired by the classical representation learning, we first consider
latent features for entities as coefficients of quantum states, while
predicates are characterized by parametric gates acting on the quantum states.
For the first model, the quantum advantages disappear when it comes to the
optimization of this model. Therefore, we introduce a second quantum circuit
model where embeddings of entities are generated from parameterized quantum
gates acting on the pure quantum state. The benefit of the second method is
that the quantum embeddings can be trained efficiently meanwhile preserving the
quantum advantages. We show the proposed methods can achieve comparable results
to the state-of-the-art classical models, e.g., RESCAL, DistMult. Furthermore,
after optimizing the models, the complexity of inductive inference on the
knowledge graphs might be reduced with respect to the number of entities.

Variational quantum algorithms dominate contemporary gate-based quantum
enhanced optimisation, eigenvalue estimation and machine learning. Here we
establish the quantum computational universality of variational quantum
computation by developing two objective functions which minimise to prepare
outputs of arbitrary quantum circuits. The fleeting resource of variational
quantum computation is the number of expected values which must be iteratively
minimised using classical-to-quantum outer loop optimisation. An efficient
solution to this optimisation problem is given by the quantum circuit being
simulated itself. The first construction is efficient in the number of expected
values for $n$-qubit circuits containing $\mathcal{O}({poly} \ln n)$
non-Clifford gates -- the number of expected values has no dependence on
Clifford gates appearing in the simulated circuit. The second approach yields
$\mathcal{O}(L^2)$ expected values while introducing not more than
$\mathcal{O}(\ln L)$ slack qubits, for a quantum circuit partitioned into $L$
gates. Hence, the utilitarian variational quantum programming procedure --
based on the classical evaluation of objective functions and iterated feedback
-- is in principle as powerful as any other model of quantum computation. This
result elevates the formal standing of the variational approach while
establishing a new universal model of quantum computation.

A quantum network, which involves multiple parties pinging each other with
quantum messages, could revolutionize communication, computing and basic
sciences. The future internet will be a global system of various packet
switching quantum and classical networks and we call it \emph{quantum
internet}. To build a quantum internet, unified protocols that support the
distribution of quantum messages within it are necessary. Intuitively one would
extend classical internet protocols to handle quantum messages. However,
classical network mechanisms, especially those related to error control and
reliable connection, implicitly assume that information can be duplicated,
which is not true in the quantum world due to the no-cloning theorem and
monogamy of entanglement. In this paper, we investigate and propose protocols
for packet quantum network intercommunication. To handle the packet loss
problem in transport, we propose a quantum retransmission protocol based on the
recursive use of a quantum secret sharing scheme. Other internet protocols are
also discussed. In particular, the creation of logical process-to-process
connections is accomplished by a quantum version of the three-way handshake
protocol.

Quantum stabilizer codes (QSCs) suffer from a low quantum coding rate, since
they have to recover the quantum bits (qubits) in the face of both bit-flip and
phase-flip errors. In this treatise, we conceive a low-complexity concatenated
quantum turbo code (QTC) design exhibiting a high quantum coding rate. The high
quantum coding rate is achieved by combining the quantum-domain version of
short-block codes (SBCs) also known as single parity check (SPC) codes as the
outer codes and quantum unity-rate codes (QURCs) as the inner codes. Despite
its design simplicity, the proposed QTC yields a near-hashing-bound error
correction performance. For instance, compared to the best half-rate QTC known
in the literature, namely the QIrCC-QURC scheme, which operates at the distance
of $D = 0.037$ from the quantum hashing bound, our novel QSBC-QURC scheme can
operate at the distance of $D = 0.029$. It is worth also mentioning that this
is the first instantiation of QTCs capable of adjusting the quantum encoders
according to the quantum coding rate required for mitigating the Pauli errors
given the different depolarizing probabilities of the quantum channel.

Recently, it has been shown that the quantum Fisher information via local
observables and via local measurements (i.e., local quantum Fisher information
(LQFI)) is a central concept in quantum estimation and quantum metrology and
captures the quantumness of correlations in the multi-component quantum system
[S. Kim et al., Phys. Rev. A. 97, 032326 (2018)]. This new discord-like measure
is very similar to the quantum correlations measure called local quantum
uncertainty (LQU). In the present study, we have revealed that LQU is bounded
by LQFI in the phase estimation protocol. Also, a comparative study between
these two quantum correlations quantifiers is addressed for the quantum
Heisenberg $XY$ model. Two distinct situations are considered. The first one
concerns the anisotropic $XY$ model and the second situation concerns the
isotropic $XY$ model submitted to an external magnetic field. Our results
confirm that LQFI reveals more quantum correlations than LQU.

Query complexity is a common tool for comparing quantum and classical
computation, and it has produced many examples of how quantum algorithms differ
from classical ones. Here we investigate in detail the role that oracles play
for the advantage of quantum algorithms. We do so by using a simulation
framework, Quantum Simulation Logic (QSL), to construct oracles and algorithms
that solve some problems with the same success probability and number of
queries as the quantum algorithms. The framework can be simulated using only
classical resources at a constant overhead as compared to the quantum resources
used in quantum computation. Our results clarify the assumptions made and the
conditions needed when using quantum oracles. Using the same assumptions on
oracles within the simulation framework we show that for some specific
algorithms, like the Deutsch-Jozsa and Simon's algorithms, there simply is no
advantage in terms of query complexity. This does not detract from the fact
that quantum query complexity provides examples of how a quantum computer can
be expected to behave, which in turn has proved useful for finding new quantum
algorithms outside of the oracle paradigm, where the most prominent example is
Shor's algorithm for integer factorization.

We present a quantum algorithm for ranking the nodes on a network in their
order of importance. The algorithm is based on a directed discrete-time quantum
walk, and works on all directed networks. This algorithm can theoretically be
applied to the entire internet, and thus can function as a quantum PageRank
algorithm. Our analysis shows that the hierarchy of quantum rank matches well
with the hierarchy of classical rank for directed tree network and for
non-trivial cyclic networks, the hierarchy of quantum ranks do not exactly
match to the hierarchy of the classical rank. This highlights the role of
quantum interference and fluctuations in networks and the importance of using
quantum algorithms to rank nodes in quantum networks. Another application this
algorithm can envision is to model the dynamics on networks mimicking the
chemical complexes and rank active centers in order of reactivities. Since
discrete-time quantum walks are implementable on current quantum processing
systems, this algorithm will also be of practical relevance in analysis of
quantum architecture.

In support of the growing interest in quantum computing experimentation,
programmers need new tools to write quantum algorithms as program code.
Compared to debugging classical programs, debugging quantum programs is
difficult because programmers have limited ability to probe the internal states
of quantum programs; those states are difficult to interpret even when
observations exist; and programmers do not yet have guidelines for what to
check for when building quantum programs. In this work, we present quantum
program assertions based on statistical tests on classical observations. These
allow programmers to decide if a quantum program state matches its expected
value in one of classical, superposition, or entangled types of states. We
extend an existing quantum programming language with the ability to specify
quantum assertions, which our tool then checks in a quantum program simulator.
We use these assertions to debug three benchmark quantum programs in factoring,
search, and chemistry. We share what types of bugs are possible, and lay out a
strategy for using quantum programming patterns to place assertions and prevent
bugs.

Quantum key distribution (QKD) allows two distant parties to share encryption
keys with security based on laws of quantum mechanics. In order to share the
keys, the quantum bits have to be transmitted from the sender to the receiver
over a noisy quantum channel. In order to transmit this information, efficient
encoders and decoders need to be designed. However, large-scale design of
quantum encoders and decoders have to depend on the channel characteristics and
require look-up tables which require memory that is exponential in the number
of qubits. In order to alleviate that, this paper aims to design the quantum
encoders and decoders for expander codes by adapting techniques from machine
learning including reinforcement learning and neural networks to the quantum
domain. The proposed quantum decoder trains a neural network which is trained
using the maximum aposteriori error for the syndromes, eliminating the use of
large lookup tables. The quantum encoder uses deep Q-learning based techniques
to optimize the generator matrices in the quantum Calderbank-Shor-Steane (CSS)
codes. The evaluation results demonstrate improved performance of the proposed
quantum encoder and decoder designs as compared to the quantum expander codes.

Quantum processes, such as quantum circuits, quantum memories, and quantum
channels, are essential ingredients in almost all quantum information
processing tasks. However, the characterization of these processes remains a
daunting task due to the exponentially increasing amount of resources required
by traditional methods. Here, by first proposing the concept of quantum process
verification, we establish two efficient and practical protocols for verifying
quantum processes which can provide an exponential improvement over the
standard quantum process tomography and a quadratic improvement over the method
of direct fidelity estimation. The efficacy of our protocols is illustrated
with the verification of various quantum gates as well as the processes of
well-known quantum circuits. Moreover, our protocols are readily applicable
with current experimental techniques since only local measurements are
required. In addition, we show that our protocols for verifying quantum
processes can be easily adapted to verify quantum measurements.

A crucial milestone in the field of quantum simulation and computation is to
demonstrate that a quantum device can compute certain tasks that are impossible
to reproduce by a classical computer with any reasonable resources. Such a
demonstration is referred to as quantum supremacy. One of the most important
questions is to identify setups that exhibit quantum supremacy and can be
implemented with current quantum technology. The two standard candidates are
boson sampling and random quantum circuits. Here, we show that quantum
supremacy can be obtained in generic periodically-driven quantum many-body
systems. Our analysis is based on the eigenstate thermalization hypothesis and
strongly-held conjectures in complexity theory. To illustrate our work, We give
examples of simple disordered Ising chains driven by global magnetic fields and
Bose-Hubbard chains with modulated hoppings. Our proposal opens the way for a
large class of quantum platforms to demonstrate and benchmark quantum
supremacy.

Quantum-reduced loop gravity is a model of loop quantum gravity, which - from
the technical point of view - is characterized by the remarkably simple form of
its basic operators. In this article we examine the operators of the
quantum-reduced model from the perspective of full loop quantum gravity. We
show that, in spite of their simplicity, the operators of the quantum-reduced
model are simply the operators of the full theory acting on states in the
Hilbert space of the quantum-reduced model. The passage from the full theory
operators to the "reduced" operators simply consists of noting that the states
of the quantum-reduced model are assumed to carry large spin quantum numbers,
and discarding terms which are of lower than leading order in $j$. Our findings
clarify the relation between the quantum-reduced model and full loop quantum
gravity, and strengthen the technical foundations on which the kinematical
structure of the quantum-reduced model is based.

A majority of established quantum generalizations of discrete structures are
shown to be instances of a single quantum generalization. In particular, the
quantum graphs of Duan, Severini and Winter, the quantum metric spaces of
Kuperberg and Weaver, the quantum isomorphisms of Atserias, Man\v{c}inska,
Roberson, \v{S}\'{a}mal, Severini and Varvitsiotis and the quantum groups of
Woronowicz that are all discrete in the sense that the underlying von Neumann
algebra is hereditarily atomic are shown to be subclasses of a single class of
discrete quantum structures. Such a discrete quantum structure is defined to be
a discrete quantum space equipped with relations and functions of various
arities. Weaver's quantum predicate logic, a generalization of the quantum
propositional logic of Birkhoff and von Neumann, provides canonical quantum
generalizations for a large class of properties. The equality relation on
discrete quantum spaces that is introduced here plays a central role in this
approach to mathematical quantization.

We discuss monitoring the time evolution of an analog quantum simulator via a
quantum non-demolition (QND) coupling to an auxiliary `clock' qubit. The QND
variable of interest is the `energy' of the quantum many-body system,
represented by the Hamiltonian of the quantum simulator. We describe a physical
implementation of the underlying QND Hamiltonian for Rydberg atoms trapped in
tweezer arrays using laser dressing schemes for a broad class of spin models.
As an application, we discuss a quantum protocol for measuring the spectral
form factor of quantum many-body systems, where the aim is to identify
signatures of ergodic vs. non-ergodic dynamics, which we illustrate for
disordered 1D Heisenberg and Floquet spin models on Rydberg platforms. Our
results also provide the physical ingredients for running quantum phase
estimation protocols for measurement of energies, and preparation of energy
eigenstates for a specified spectral resolution on an analog quantum simulator.

In present-day quantum communications, one of the main problems is the lack
of a quantum repeater design that can simultaneously secure high rates and long
distances. Recent literature has established the end-to-end capacities that are
achievable by the most general protocols for quantum and private communication
within a quantum network, encompassing the case of a quantum repeater chain.
However, whether or not a physical design exists to approach such capacities
remains a challenging objective. Driven by this motivation, in this work, we
put forward a design for continuous-variable quantum repeaters and show that it
can actually achieve the feat. We also show that even in a noisy regime our
rates surpass the Pirandola-Laurenza-Ottaviani-Banchi (PLOB) bound. Our
repeater setup is developed upon using noiseless linear amplifiers, quantum
memories, and continuous-variable Bell measurements. We, furthermore, propose a
non-ideal model for continuous-variable quantum memories that we make use of in
our design. We then show that potential quantum communications rates would
deviate from the theoretical capacities, as one would expect, if the quantum
link is too noisy and/or low-quality quantum memories and amplifiers are
employed.

Establishing quantum entanglement between individual nodes is crucial for
building large-scale quantum networks, enabling secure quantum communication,
distributed quantum computing, enhanced quantum metrology and fundamental tests
of quantum mechanics. However, the shared entanglements have been merely
observed in either extremely low-temperature or well-isolated systems, which
limits the quantum networks for the real-life applications. Here, we report the
realization of heralding quantum entanglement between two atomic ensembles at
room temperature, where each of them contains billions of motional atoms. By
measuring the mapped-out entangled state with quantum interference, concurrence
and correlation, we strongly verify the existence of a single excitation
delocalized in two atomic ensembles. Remarkably, the heralded quantum
entanglement of atomic ensembles can be operated with the feature of
delay-choice, which illustrates the essentiality of the built-in quantum
memory. The demonstrated building block paves the way for constructing quantum
networks and distributing entanglement across multiple remote nodes at ambient
conditions.

Several important models of machine learning algorithms have been
successfully generalized to the quantum world, with potential speedup to
training classical classifiers and applications to data analytics in quantum
physics that can be implemented on the near future quantum computers. However,
quantum noise is a major obstacle to the practical implementation of quantum
machine learning. In this work, we define a formal framework for the robustness
verification and analysis of quantum machine learning algorithms against
noises. A robust bound is derived and an algorithm is developed to check
whether or not a quantum machine learning algorithm is robust with respect to
quantum training data. In particular, this algorithm can find adversarial
examples during checking. Our approach is implemented on Google's TensorFlow
Quantum and can verify the robustness of quantum machine learning algorithms
with respect to a small disturbance of noises, derived from the surrounding
environment. The effectiveness of our robust bound and algorithm is confirmed
by the experimental results, including quantum bits classification as the
"Hello World" example, quantum phase recognition and cluster excitation
detection from real world intractable physical problems, and the classification
of MNIST from the classical world.

Quantum dots fabricated using techniques and materials that are compatible
with semiconductor manufacturing are promising for quantum information
processing. While great progress has been made toward high-fidelity control of
quantum dots positioned in a linear arrangement, scalability along two
dimensions is a key step toward practical quantum information processing. Here
we demonstrate a two-dimensional quantum dot array where each quantum dot is
tuned to single-charge occupancy, verified by simultaneous measuring with two
integrated radio frequency charge sensors. We achieve this by using planar
germanium quantum dots with low disorder and small effective mass, allowing the
incorporation of dedicated barrier gates to control the coupling of the quantum
dots. We demonstrate hole charge filling consistent with a Fock-Darwin spectrum
and show that we can tune single-hole quantum dots from isolated quantum dots
to strongly exchange coupled quantum dots. These results motivate the use of
planar germanium quantum dots as building blocks for quantum simulation and
computation.

Motivated by the theory of Cuntz-Krieger algebras we define and study $
C^\ast $-algebras associated to directed quantum graphs. For classical graphs
the $ C^\ast $-algebras obtained this way can be viewed as free analogues of
Cuntz-Krieger algebras, and need not be nuclear.
  We study two particular classes of quantum graphs in detail, namely the
trivial and the complete quantum graphs. For the trivial quantum graph on a
single matrix block, we show that the associated quantum Cuntz-Krieger algebra
is neither unital, nuclear nor simple, and does not depend on the size of the
matrix block up to $ KK $-equivalence. In the case of the complete quantum
graphs we use quantum symmetries to show that, in certain cases, the
corresponding quantum Cuntz-Krieger algebras are isomorphic to Cuntz algebras.
These isomorphisms, which seem far from obvious from the definitions, imply in
particular that these $ C^\ast $-algebras are all pairwise non-isomorphic for
complete quantum graphs of different dimensions, even on the level of $ KK
$-theory. We explain how the notion of unitary error basis from quantum
information theory can help to elucidate the situation.
  We also discuss quantum symmetries of quantum Cuntz-Krieger algebras in
general.

Increasingly sophisticated quantum computers motivate the exploration of
their abilities in certifying genuine quantum phenomena. Here, we demonstrate
the power of state-of-the-art IBM quantum computers in correlation experiments
inspired by quantum networks. Our experiments feature up to 12 qubits and
require the implementation of paradigmatic Bell-State Measurements for scalable
entanglement-swapping. First, we demonstrate quantum correlations that defy
classical models in up to nine-qubit systems while only assuming that the
quantum computer operates on qubits. Harvesting these quantum advantages, we
are able to certify 82 basis elements as entangled in a 512-outcome
measurement. Then, we relax the qubit assumption and consider quantum
nonlocality in a scenario with multiple independent entangled states arranged
in a star configuration. We report quantum violations of source-independent
Bell inequalities for up to ten qubits. Our results demonstrate the ability of
quantum computers to outperform classical limitations and certify scalable
entangled measurements.

We prove the quantum Zeno effect in open quantum systems whose evolution,
governed by quantum dynamical semigroups, is repeatedly and frequently
interrupted by the action of a quantum operation. For the case of a quantum
dynamical semigroup with a bounded generator, our analysis leads to a
refinement of existing results and extends them to a larger class of quantum
operations. We also prove the existence of a novel strong quantum Zeno limit
for quantum operations for which a certain spectral gap assumption, which all
previous results relied on, is lifted. The quantum operations are instead
required to satisfy a weaker property of strong power-convergence. In addition,
we establish, for the first time, the existence of a quantum Zeno limit for the
case of unbounded generators. We also provide a variety of physically
interesting examples of quantum operations to which our results apply.

The field of quantum information is becoming more known to the general
public. However, effectively demonstrating the concepts underneath quantum
science and technology to the general public can be a challenging job. We
investigate, extend, and much expand here "quantum candies" (invented by
Jacobs), a pedagogical model for intuitively describing some basic concepts in
quantum information, including quantum bits, complementarity, the no-cloning
principle, and entanglement. Following Jacob's quantum candies description of
the well known quantum key distribution protocol BB84, we explicitly
demonstrate various additional quantum cryptography protocols using quantum
candies in an approachable manner. The model we investigate can be a valuable
tool for science and engineering educators who would like to help the general
public to gain more insights about quantum science and technology: most parts
of this paper, including many protocols for quantum cryptography, are expected
to be easily understandable by a layperson without any previous knowledge of
mathematics, physics, or cryptography.

Quantum systems can be controlled by other quantum systems in a reversible
way, without any information leaking to the outside of the system-controller
compound. Such coherent quantum control is deterministic, is less noisy than
measurement-based feedback control, and has potential applications in a variety
of quantum technologies, including quantum computation, quantum communication
and quantum metrology. Here we introduce a coherent feedback protocol,
consisting of a sequence of identical interactions with controlling quantum
systems, that steers a quantum system from an arbitrary initial state towards a
target state. We determine the broad class of such coherent feedback channels
that achieve convergence to the target state, and then stabilise as well as
protect it against noise. Our results imply that also weak system-controller
interactions can counter noise if they occur with suitably high frequency. We
provide an example of a control scheme that does not require knowledge of the
target state encoded in the controllers, which could be the result of a quantum
computation. It thus provides a mechanism for autonomous, purely quantum
closed-loop control.

Quantum simulator with the ability to harness the dynamics of complex quantum
systems has emerged as a promising platform for probing exotic topological
phases. Since the flexibility offered by various controllable quantum systems
has enabled to gain insight into quantum simulation of such complicated
problems, analog quantum simulator has recently shown its feasibility to tackle
problems of exploring topological phases. However, digital quantum simulation
and detection of topological phases still remain elusive. Here, we develop and
experimentally realize the digital quantum simulation of topological phase with
a solid-state quantum simulator at room temperature. Distinct from previous
works dealing with static topological phases, the topological phases emulated
here are Floquet topological phases. Furthermore, we also illustrate the
procedure of digitally simulating a quantum quench and observing the
nonequilibrium dynamics of Floquet topological phases. By means of quantum
quench, the 0- and {\pi}-energy topological invariants are unambiguously
detected through measuring time-averaged spin polarizations. Our experiment
opens up a new avenue to digitally simulate and detect Floquet topological
phases with fast-developed programmable quantum simulators.

In distributed quantum computing architectures, with the network and
communications functionalities provided by the Quantum Internet, remote quantum
processing units (QPUs) can communicate and cooperate for executing
computational tasks that single NISQ devices cannot handle by themselves. To
this aim, distributed quantum computing requires a new generation of quantum
compilers, for mapping any quantum algorithm to any distributed quantum
computing architecture. With this perspective, in this paper, we first discuss
the main challenges arising with compiler design for distributed quantum
computing. Then, we analytically derive an upper bound of the overhead induced
by quantum compilation for distributed quantum computing. The derived bound
accounts for the overhead induced by the underlying computing architecture as
well as the additional overhead induced by the sub-optimal quantum compiler --
expressly designed through the paper to achieve three key features, namely,
general-purpose, efficient and effective. Finally, we validate the analytical
results and we confirm the validity of the compiler design through an extensive
performance analysis.

Quantifying how far the output of a learning algorithm is from its target is
an essential task in machine learning. However, in quantum settings, the loss
landscapes of commonly used distance metrics often produce undesirable outcomes
such as poor local minima and exponentially decaying gradients. To overcome
these obstacles, we consider here the recently proposed quantum earth mover's
(EM) or Wasserstein-1 distance as a quantum analog to the classical EM
distance. We show that the quantum EM distance possesses unique properties, not
found in other commonly used quantum distance metrics, that make quantum
learning more stable and efficient. We propose a quantum Wasserstein generative
adversarial network (qWGAN) which takes advantage of the quantum EM distance
and provides an efficient means of performing learning on quantum data. We
provide examples where our qWGAN is capable of learning a diverse set of
quantum data with only resources polynomial in the number of qubits.

Quantum computers are expected to help us to achieve accurate simulation of
the dynamics of many-body quantum systems. However, the limitations of current
NISQ devices prevents us from realising this goal today. Recently an algorithm
for performing quantum simulations called quantum assisted simulator has been
proposed that promises realization on current experimental devices. In this
work, we extend the quantum assisted simulator to simulate the dynamics of a
class of time-dependent Hamiltonians. We show that the quantum assisted
simulator is easier to implement as well as can realize multi-qubit
interactions and challenging driving protocols that are difficult with other
existing methods. We demonstrate this for a time-dependent Hamiltonian on the
IBM Quantum Experience cloud quantum computer by showing superior performance
of the quantum assisted simulator compared to Trotterization and variational
quantum simulation. Further, we demonstrate the capability to simulate the
dynamics of Hamiltonians consisting of 10000 qubits. Our results indicate that
quantum assisted simulator is a promising algorithm for current term quantum
hardware.

Quantum communication is an important application that derives from the
burgeoning field of quantum information and quantum computation. Focusing on
secure communication, quantum cryptography has two major directions of
development, namely quantum key distribution and quantum encryption. In this
work we propose a quantum encryption protocol that utilizes a quantum algorithm
to create blocks of ciphertexts based on quantum states. The main feature of
our quantum encryption protocol is that the encryption configuration of each
block is determined by the previous blocks, such that additional security is
provided. We then demonstrate our method by an example model encrypting the
English alphabet, with numerical simulation results showing the large error
rate of a mock attack by a potential adversary. With possible future
improvements in mind, our quantum encryption protocol is a capable addition to
the toolbox of quantum cryptography.

Quantum deletions, which are harder to correct than erasure errors, occur in
many realistic settings. It is therefore pertinent to develop quantum coding
schemes for quantum deletion channels. To date, not much is known about which
explicit quantum error correction codes can combat quantum deletions. We note
that {\em any} permutation-invariant quantum code that has a distance of $t+1$
can correct $t$ quantum deletions for any positive integer $t$ in both the
qubit and the qudit setting. Leveraging on coding properties of
permutation-invariant quantum codes under erasure errors, we derive
corresponding coding bounds for permutation-invariant quantum codes under
quantum deletions. We focus our attention on a specific family of $N$-qubit
permutation-invariant quantum codes, which we call shifted gnu codes, and show
that their encoding and decoding algorithms can be performed in $O(N)$ and
$O(N^2)$.

Unforgeable quantum money tokens were the first invention of quantum
information science, but remain technologically challenging as they require
quantum memories and/or long distance quantum communication. More recently,
virtual 'S-money' tokens were introduced. These are generated by quantum
cryptography, do not require quantum memories or long distance quantum
communication, and yet in principle guarantee many of the security advantages
of quantum money. Here, we describe implementations of S-money schemes with
off-the-shelf quantum key distribution technology, and analyse security in the
presence of noise, losses, and experimental imperfection. Our schemes satisfy
near instant validation without cross-checking. We show that, given standard
assumptions in mistrustful quantum cryptographic implementations,
unforgeability and user privacy could be guaranteed with attainable refinements
of our off-the-shelf setup. We discuss the possibilities for unconditionally
secure (assumption-free) implementations.

The essence of quantum error-correction is to use redundant Hilbert space to
identify and correct errors, and the channel fidelity of the quantum channel
does not affect which errors can be identified and corrected. Based on this, it
is found that quantum error-correction can be used to classify the independent
quantum channel into 5 types, and 4 of the 5 types can be purified. It is found
in quantum error-correction, the decoherence of quantum state may be related to
the degree of identification for the state under quantum noise, and the results
of this work confirmed that the degree of purity of quantum channel determines
its ability to retain the quantum property of the quantum state, not the
fidelity. In this work, the identification of the independent Pauli channels by
quantum error-correction is demonstrated.

Restoration of oscillation from an oscillation suppressed state in coupled
oscillators is an important topic of research and has been studied widely in
recent years. However, the same in the quantum regime has not been explored
yet. Recent works established that under certain coupling conditions coupled
quantum oscillators are susceptible to suppression of oscillations, such as
amplitude death and oscillation death. In this paper, for the first time we
demonstrate that quantum oscillation suppression states can be revoked and
rhythmogenesis can be established in coupled quantum oscillators by controlling
a feedback parameter in the coupling path. However, in sharp contrast to the
classical system, we show that in the deep quantum regime the feedback
parameter fails to revive oscillation, rather results in a transition from
quantum amplitude death state to the recently discovered quantum oscillation
death state. We use the formalism of open quantum system and phase space
representation of quantum mechanics to establish our results. Therefore, our
study establishes that revival scheme proposed for classical systems does not
always result in restoration of oscillation in quantum systems but in the deep
quantum regime it may give counterintuitive behaviors that are of pure quantum
mechanical origin.

A viable approach for building large-scale quantum computers is to interlink
small-scale quantum computers with a quantum network to create a larger
distributed quantum computer. When designing quantum algorithms for such a
distributed quantum computer, one can make use of the added parallelization and
distribution abilities inherent in the system. An added difficulty to then
overcome for distributed quantum computing is that a complex control system to
orchestrate the various components is required. In this work, we aim to address
these issues. We explicitly define what it means for a quantum algorithm to be
distributed and then present various quantum algorithms that fit the
definition. We discuss potential benefits and propose a high-level scheme for
controlling the system. With this, we present our software framework called
Interlin-q, a simulation platform that aims to simplify designing and verifying
parallel and distributed quantum algorithms. We demonstrate Interlin-q by
implementing some of the discussed algorithms using Interlin-q and layout
future steps for developing Interlin-q into a control system for distributed
quantum computers.

A proof of quantumness is a type of challenge-response protocol in which a
classical verifier can efficiently certify the quantum advantage of an
untrusted prover. That is, a quantum prover can correctly answer the verifier's
challenges and be accepted, while any polynomial-time classical prover will be
rejected with high probability, based on plausible computational assumptions.
To answer the verifier's challenges, existing proofs of quantumness typically
require the quantum prover to perform a combination of polynomial-size quantum
circuits and measurements. In this paper, we give two proof of quantumness
constructions in which the prover need only perform constant-depth quantum
circuits (and measurements) together with log-depth classical computation. Our
first construction is a generic compiler that allows us to translate all
existing proofs of quantumness into constant quantum depth versions. Our second
construction is based around the learning with rounding problem, and yields
circuits with shorter depth and requiring fewer qubits than the generic
construction. In addition, the second construction also has some robustness
against noise.

Quantum cooperativity is evident in light-matter platforms where quantum
emitter ensembles are interfaced with confined optical modes and are coupled
via the ubiquitous electromagnetic quantum vacuum. Cooperative effects can find
applications, among other areas, in topological quantum optics, in quantum
metrology or in quantum information. This tutorial provides a set of
theoretical tools to tackle the behavior responsible for the onset of
cooperativity by extending open quantum system dynamics methods, such as the
master equation and quantum Langevin equations, to electron-photon interactions
in strongly coupled and correlated quantum emitter ensembles. The methods are
illustrated on a wide range of current research topics such as the design of
nanoscale coherent light sources, highly-reflective quantum metasurfaces or low
intracavity power superradiant lasers. The analytical approaches are developed
for ensembles of identical two-level quantum emitters and then extended to more
complex systems where frequency disorder or vibronic couplings are taken into
account. The relevance of the approach ranges from atoms in optical lattices to
quantum dots or molecular systems in solid-state environments.

Most modern (classical) programming languages support recursion. Recursion
has also been successfully applied to the design of several quantum algorithms
and introduced in a couple of quantum programming languages. So, it can be
expected that recursion will become one of the fundamental paradigms of quantum
programming. Several program logics have been developed for verification of
quantum while-programs. However, there are as yet no general methods for
reasoning about (mutual) recursive procedures and ancilla quantum data
structure in quantum computing (with measurement). We fill the gap in this
paper by proposing a parameterized quantum assertion logic and, based on which,
designing a quantum Hoare logic for verifying parameterized recursive quantum
programs with ancilla data and probabilistic control. The quantum Hoare logic
can be used to prove partial, total, and even probabilistic correctness (by
reducing to total correctness) of those quantum programs. In particular, two
counterexamples for illustrating incompleteness of non-parameterized assertions
in verifying recursive procedures, and, one counterexample for showing the
failure of reasoning with exact probabilities based on partial correctness, are
constructed. The effectiveness of our logic is shown by three main examples --
recursive quantum Markov chain (with probabilistic control), fixed-point
Grover's search, and recursive quantum Fourier sampling.

Noisy intermediate scale quantum computers are useful for various tasks such
as state preparation and variational quantum algorithms. However, the
non-Euclidean quantum geometry of parameterized quantum circuits is detrimental
for these applications. Here, we introduce the natural parameterized quantum
circuit (NPQC) that can be initialised with a Euclidean quantum geometry. The
initial training of variational quantum algorithms is substantially sped up as
the gradient is equivalent to the quantum natural gradient. Further, we show
how to estimate the parameters of the NPQC by sampling the circuit, which could
be used for benchmarking or calibrating NISQ hardware. For a general class of
quantum circuits, the NPQC has the minimal quantum Cram\'er-Rao bound which
highlights its potential for quantum metrology. Finally, we show how to
generate arbitrary superpositions of two states with the NPQCs for state
preparation tasks. Our results can be used to enhance currently available
quantum processors.

For scalable quantum communication and networks, a key step is to realize a
quantum repeater node that can efficiently connect different segments of
atom-photon entanglement using quantum memories. We report a compact and
hardware-efficient realization of a quantum repeater node using a single atomic
ensemble for multicell quantum memories. Millisecond lifetime is achieved for
individual memory cells after suppressing the magnetic-field-induced
inhomogeneous broadening and the atomic-motion-induced spin-wave dephasing.
Based on these long-lived multicell memory cells, we achieve heralded
asynchronous entanglement generation in two quantum repeater segments one after
another and then an on-demand entanglement connection of these two repeater
segments. As another application of the multicell atomic quantum memory, we
further demonstrate storage and on-demand retrieval of heralded atomic
spin-wave qubits by implementing a random access quantum memory with individual
addressing capacity. This work provides a promising constituent for efficient
realization of quantum repeaters for large-scale quantum networks.

Quantum technologies leverage the laws of quantum physics to achieve
performance advantages in applications ranging from computing to communications
and sensing. They have been proposed to have a range of applications in
biological science. This includes better microscopes and biosensors, improved
simulations of molecular processes, and new capabilities to control the
behaviour of biomolecules and chemical reactions. Quantum effects are also
predicted, with much debate, to have functional benefits in biology, for
instance, allowing more efficient energy transport and improving the rate of
enzyme catalysis. Conversely, the robustness of biological systems to disorder
from their environment has led to proposals to use them as components within
quantum technologies, for instance as light sources for quantum communication
systems. Together, this breadth of prospective applications at the interface of
quantum and biological science suggests that quantum physics will play an
important role in stimulating future biotechnological advances. This review
aims to provide an overview of this emerging field of quantum biotechnology,
introducing current capabilities, future prospects, and potential areas of
impact. The review is written to be accessible to the non-expert and focuses on
the four key areas of quantum-enabled sensing, quantum-enabled imaging, quantum
biomolecular control, and quantum effects in biology.

Goyeneche et al.\ [Phys.\ Rev.\ A \textbf{97}, 062326 (2018)] introduced
several classes of quantum combinatorial designs, namely quantum Latin squares,
quantum Latin cubes, and the notion of orthogonality on them. They also showed
that mutually orthogonal quantum Latin arrangements can be entangled in the
same way in which quantum states are entangled. Moreover, they established a
relationship between quantum combinatorial designs and a remarkable class of
entangled states called $k$-uniform states, i.e., multipartite pure states such
that every reduction to $k$ parties is maximally mixed. In this article, we put
forward the notions of incomplete quantum Latin squares and orthogonality on
them and present construction methods for mutually orthogonal quantum Latin
squares and mutually orthogonal quantum Latin cubes. Furthermore, we introduce
the notions of generalized mutually orthogonal quantum Latin squares and
generalized mutually orthogonal quantum Latin cubes, which are equivalent to
quantum orthogonal arrays of size $d^2$ and $d^3$, respectively, and thus
naturally provide $2$- and $3$-uniform states.

Geometric quantum mechanics, through its differential-geometric underpinning,
provides additional tools of analysis and interpretation that bring quantum
mechanics closer to classical mechanics: state spaces in both are equipped with
symplectic geometry. This opens the door to revisiting foundational questions
and issues, such as the nature of quantum entropy, from a geometric
perspective. Central to this is the concept of geometric quantum state -- the
probability measure on a system's space of pure states. This space's continuity
leads us to introduce two analysis tools, inspired by Renyi's information
theory, to characterize and quantify fundamental properties of geometric
quantum states: the quantum information dimension that is the rate of geometric
quantum state compression and the dimensional geometric entropy that monitors
information stored in quantum states. We recount their classical definitions,
information-theoretic meanings, and physical interpretations, and adapt them to
quantum systems via the geometric approach. We then explicitly compute them in
various examples and classes of quantum system. We conclude commenting on
future directions for information in geometric quantum mechanics.

Existing quantum compilers focus on mapping a logical quantum circuit to a
quantum device and its native quantum gates. Only simple circuit identities are
used to optimize the quantum circuit during the compilation process. This
approach misses more complex circuit identities, which could be used to
optimize the quantum circuit further. We propose Quanto, the first quantum
optimizer that automatically generates circuit identities. Quanto takes as
input a gate set and generates provably correct circuit identities for the gate
set. Quanto's automatic generation of circuit identities includes single-qubit
and two-qubit gates, which leads to a new database of circuit identities, some
of which are novel to the best of our knowledge. In addition to the generation
of new circuit identities, Quanto's optimizer applies such circuit identities
to quantum circuits and finds optimized quantum circuits that have not been
discovered by other quantum compilers, including IBM Qiskit and Cambridge
Quantum Computing Tket. Quanto's database of circuit identities could be
applied to improve existing quantum compilers and Quanto can be used to
generate identity databases for new gate sets.

Quantum graphs are an operator space generalization of classical graphs that
have emerged in different branches of mathematics including operator theory,
non-commutative topology and quantum information theory. In this paper, we
obtain lower bounds for the classical and quantum chromatic number of a quantum
graph using eigenvalues of the quantum adjacency matrix. In particular, we
prove a quantum generalization of Hoffman's bound and introduce quantum
analogues for the edge number, Laplacian and signless Laplacian. We generalize
all the spectral bounds given by Elphick and Wocjan (2019) to the quantum graph
setting and demonstrate the tightness of these bounds in the case of complete
quantum graphs. Our results are achieved using techniques from linear algebra
and a combinatorial definition of quantum graph coloring, which is obtained
from the winning strategies of a quantum-to-classical nonlocal graph coloring
game, given by M. Brannan, P. Ganesan and S. Harris (2020).

We present a full quantum model to study the fidelity of single photons with
different quantum states propagating in a medium exhibiting electromagnetically
induced transparency (EIT). By using the general reservoir theory, we can
calculate the quantum state of the transmitted probe photons that reveal the
EIT phenomenon predicted by semiclassical theory while reflecting the influence
of the quantum fluctuations of the strong coupling field. Our study shows that
the coupling field fluctuations not only change the quantum state of the probe
photons, but also slightly affect its transmittance. Moreover, we demonstrate
that the squeezed coupling field can enhance the influence of its fluctuations
on the quantum state of the probe photons, which means that the EIT effect can
be manipulated by controlling the quantum state properties of the coupling
field. The full quantum theory in this paper is suitable for studying quantum
systems related to the EIT mechanism that would allow us to examine various
quantum effects in EIT-based systems from a full quantum perspective.

Quantum Information Technologies and a Practical Module is a new course we
launch at Shanghai Jiao Tong University targeting at the undergraduate students
who major in a variety of engineering disciplines. We develop a holistic
curriculum for quantum computing covering the quantum hardware, quantum
algorithms and applications. The quantum computing approaches include the
universal digital quantum computing, analog quantum computing and the hybrid
quantum-classical variational quantum computing that is tailored to the noisy
intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ) technologies nowadays. Besides, we set a
practical module to bring student closer to the real industry needs. The
students would form a team of three to use any quantum approach to solve a
problem in fields like optimization, finance, machine learning, chemistry and
biology. Further, this course is selected into the Jiao Tong Global Virtual
Classroom Initiative, so that it is open to global students in Association of
Pacific Rim Universities at the same time with the offline students, in a
specifically updated classroom. The efforts in curriculum development,
practical module setting and blended learning make this course a good case
study for education on quantum sciences and technologies.

Single photons constitute a main platform in quantum science and technology:
they carry quantum information over extended distances in the future quantum
internet and can be manipulated in advanced photonic circuits enabling scalable
photonic quantum computing. The main challenge in quantum photonics is how to
generate advanced entangled resource states and efficient light-matter
interfaces. Here we utilize the efficient and coherent coupling of a single
quantum emitter to a nanophotonic waveguide for realizing quantum nonlinear
interaction between single-photon wavepackets. This inherently multimode
quantum system constitutes a new research frontier in quantum optics. We
demonstrate control of a photon with another photon and experimentally unravel
the dynamical response of two-photon interactions mediated by a quantum
emitter, and show that the induced quantum correlations are controlled by the
pulse duration. The work will open new avenues for tailoring complex photonic
quantum resource states.

As quantum programming evolves, more and more quantum programming languages
are being developed. As a result, debugging and testing quantum programs have
become increasingly important. While bug fixing in classical programs has come
a long way, there is a lack of research in quantum programs. To this end, this
paper presents a comprehensive study on bug fixing in quantum programs. We
collect and investigate 96 real-world bugs and their fixes from four popular
quantum programming languages Qiskit, Cirq, Q#, and ProjectQ). Our study shows
that a high proportion of bugs in quantum programs are quantum-specific bugs
(over 80%), which requires further research in the bug fixing domain. We also
summarize and extend the bug patterns in quantum programs and subdivide the
most critical part, math-related bugs, to make it more applicable to the study
of quantum programs. Our findings summarize the characteristics of bugs in
quantum programs and provide a basis for studying testing and debugging quantum
programs.

In the processing of quantum computation, analyzing and learning the pattern
of the quantum data are essential for many tasks. Quantum machine learning
algorithms can not only deal with the quantum states generated in the preceding
quantum procedures, but also the quantum registers encoding classical problems.
In this work, we experimentally demonstrate the anomaly detection of quantum
states encoding audio samples with a three-qubit quantum processor consisting
of solid-state spins in diamond. By training the quantum machine with a few
normal samples, the quantum machine can detect the anomaly samples with a
minimum error rate of 15.4%. These results show the power of quantum anomaly
detection in dealing with machine learning tasks and the potential to detect
abnormal output of quantum devices.

In recent years an increasing number of papers attempt to mimic or supplant
quantum field theory in discussions of issues related to gravity by the tools
and through the perspective of quantum information theory, often in the context
of alternative quantum theories. In this essay, we point out three common
problems in such treatments. First, we show that the notion of interactions
mediated by an information channel is not, in general, equivalent to the
treatment of interactions by quantum field theory. When used to describe
gravity, this notion may lead to inconsistencies with general relativity.
Second, we point out that in general one cannot replace a quantum field by that
of classical stochastic sources, or mock up the effects of quantum fluctuations
by classical noises, because in so doing important quantum features such as
coherence and entanglement will be left out. Third, we explain how under
specific conditions semi-classical and stochastic theories indeed can be
formulated from their quantum origins and play a role at certain regimes of
interest.

Many applications of the emerging quantum technologies, such as quantum
teleportation and quantum key distribution, require singlets, maximally
entangled states of two quantum bits. It is thus of utmost importance to
develop optimal procedures for establishing singlets between remote parties. As
has been shown very recently, singlets can be obtained from other quantum
states by using a quantum catalyst, an entangled quantum system which is not
changed in the procedure. In this work we take this idea further, investigating
properties of entanglement catalysis and its role for quantum communication.
For transformations between bipartite pure states, we prove the existence of a
universal catalyst, which can enable all possible transformations in this
setup. We demonstrate the advantage of catalysis in asymptotic settings, going
beyond the typical assumption of independent and identically distributed
systems. We further develop methods to estimate the number of singlets which
can be established via a noisy quantum channel when assisted by entangled
catalysts. For various types of quantum channels our results lead to optimal
protocols, allowing to establish the maximal number of singlets with a single
use of the channel.

The evolution of quantum computing technologies has been advancing at a
steady pace in the recent years, and the current trend suggests that it will
become available at scale for commercial purposes in the near future. The
acceleration can be boosted by pooling compute infrastructures to either
parallelize algorithm execution or solve bigger instances that are not feasible
on a single quantum computer, which requires an underlying Quantum Internet:
the interconnection of quantum computers by quantum links and repeaters to
exchange entangled quantum bits. However, Quantum Internet research so far has
been focused on provisioning point-to-point flows only, which is suitable for
(e.g.) quantum sensing and metrology, but not for distributed quantum
computing. In this paper, after a primer on quantum computing and networking,
we investigate the requirements and objectives of smart computing on
distributed nodes from the perspective of quantum network provisioning. We then
design a resource allocation strategy that is evaluated through a comprehensive
simulation campaign, whose results highlight the key features and performance
issues, and lead the way to further investigation in this direction.

Quantum computing is a radical new paradigm for a technology that is capable
to revolutionize information processing. Simulators of universal quantum
computer are important for understanding the basic principles and operations of
the current noisy intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ) processors, and for
building in future fault-tolerant quantum computers. In this work, we present
simulation of universal quantum computers by introducing Psitrum -- a universal
gate-model quantum computer simulator implemented on classical hardware. The
simulator allows to emulate and debug quantum algorithms in form of quantum
circuits for many applications with the choice of adding variety of noise
modules to simulate decoherence in quantum circuits. Psitrum allows to simulate
all basic quantum operations and provides variety of visualization tools. The
simulator allows to trace out all possible quantum states at each stage M of an
N-qubit implemented quantum circuit. Psitrum software and source codes are
freely available at: (github.com/moghadeer/Psitrum).

Contemporary quantum technologies face major difficulties in fault tolerant
quantum computing with error correction, and focus instead on various shades of
quantum simulation (Noisy Intermediate Scale Quantum, NISQ) devices, analogue
and digital quantum simulators and quantum annealers. There is a clear need and
quest for such systems that, without necessarily simulating quantum dynamics of
some physical systems, can generate massive, controllable, robust, entangled,
and superposition states. This will, in particular, allow the control of
decoherence, enabling the use of these states for quantum communications (e.g.
to achieve efficient transfer of information in a safer and quicker way),
quantum metrology, sensing and diagnostics (e.g. to precisely measure phase
shifts of light fields, or to diagnose quantum materials). In this Chapter we
present a vision of the golden future of quantum simulators in the decades to
come.

Two essential primitives for universal, cloud-based quantum computation with
security based on the laws of quantum mechanics, are quantum homomorphic
encryption with information-theoretic security and quantum error correction.
The former enables information-theoretic security of outsourced quantum
computation, while the latter allows reliable and scalable quantum computations
in the presence of errors. Previously these ingredients have been considered in
isolation from one another. By establishing group-theoretic requirements that
these two ingredients must satisfy, we provide a general framework for
composing them. Namely, a quantum homomorphic encryption scheme enhanced with
quantum error correction can directly inherit its properties from its
constituent quantum homomorphic encryption and quantum error correction
schemes. We apply our framework to both discrete- and continuous-variable
models for quantum computation, such as Pauli-key and permutation-key
encryptions in the qubit model, and displacement-key encryptions in a
continuous-variable model based on Gottesman-Kitaev-Preskill codes.

Quantization of the gravity remains one of the most important, yet extremely
illusive, challenges at the heart of modern physics. Any attempt to resolve
this long-standing problem seems to be doomed, as the route to any direct
empirical evidence (i.e., detecting gravitons) for shedding light on the
quantum aspect of the gravity is far beyond the current capabilities. Recently,
it has been discovered that gravitationally-induced entanglement, tailored in
the interferometric frameworks, can be used to witness the quantum nature of
the gravity. Even though these schemes offer promising tools for investigating
quantum gravity, many fundamental and empirical aspects of the schemes are yet
to be discovered. Considering the fact that, beside quantum entanglement,
quantum uncertainty and complementarity principles are the two other
foundational aspects of quantum physics, the quantum nature of the gravity
needs to manifest all of these features. Here, we lay out an interferometric
platform for testing these three nonclassical aspects of quantum mechanics in
quantum gravity setting, which connects gravity and quantum physics in a
broader and deeper context. As we show in this work, all of these three
fundamental features of quantum gravity can be framed and fully analyzed in an
interferometric scheme.

We analyze the strengths and limitations of steered discrete time quantum
walks in generating quantum states of bipartite quantum systems comprising of a
qubit coupled to a qudit system. We demonstrate that not all quantum states in
the composite space are accessible through quantum walks, even under the most
generalized definition of a quantum step, leading to a bifurcation of the
composite Hilbert space into "walk-accessible states" and the
"walk-inaccessible states". We give an algorithm for generating any
walk-accessible state from a simple-to-realize product state, in a minimal
number of walk steps, all of unit step size. We further give a prescription
towards constructing minimal quantum walks between any pair of such
walk-accessible states. Linear optics has been a popular physical system for
implementing coin-based quantum walks, where the composite space is built up of
spin and orbital angular momenta of light beams. We establish that in such an
implementation, all normalized quantum states are "walk-accessible".
Furthermore, any generalized quantum step can be implemented upto a global
phase using a single q-plate and a pair of homogeneous waveplates. We then give
a quantum walk based scheme for realizing arbitrary vector beams, using only
q-plates and waveplates.

We introduce the quantum-house effect, a non-local phenomenon which
apparently does not require quantum discord to be present. It suffices for the
effect if neither subsystem of a bipartite system is in a pure state. This way,
the quantum-house effect completely fills the gap between trivial correlations
and quantum discord. However, we discuss why the situation is more subtle than
that, by showing that in a concrete cryptographic setting called "the
quantum-house game", the ability to produce quantum discord is in fact
necessary for the quantum-house effect to work. Then, we suggest a principle
called "quantum detachment" to characterize where quantumness in general
departs from classicality, based on the information a physical system contains
about itself. The quantum-house effect is demonstrated on SpinQ Gemini, a
2-qubit liquid-state NMR desktop quantum computer.

A future quantum network will consist of quantum processors that are
connected by quantum channels, just like conventional computers are wired up to
form the Internet. In contrast to classical devices, however, the entanglement
and non-local correlations available in a quantum-controlled system facilitate
novel fundamental tests of quantum theory. In addition, they enable numerous
applications in distributed quantum information processing, quantum
communication, and precision measurement.
  While pioneering experiments have demonstrated the entanglement of two
quantum nodes separated by up to 1.3 km, and three nodes in the same
laboratory, accessing the full potential of quantum networks requires scaling
of these prototypes to many more nodes and global distances. This is an
outstanding challenge, posing high demands on qubit control fidelity, qubit
coherence time, and coupling efficiency between stationary and flying qubits.
  In this work, I will describe how optical resonators facilitate quantum
network nodes that achieve the above-mentioned prerequisites in different
physical systems -- trapped atoms, defect centers in wide-bandgap
semiconductors, and rare-earth dopants -- by enabling high-fidelity qubit
initialization and readout, efficient generation of qubit-photon and remote
qubit-qubit entanglement, as well as quantum gates between stationary and
flying qubits. These advances open a realistic perspective towards the
implementation of global-scale quantum networks in the near future.

A system-ancilla bipartite state capable of containing the complete
information of an unknown quantum channel acting on the system is called
faithful. The equivalence between faithfulness of state and invertibility of
the corresponding Jamiolkowski map proved by D'Ariano and Presti has been a
useful characterization for ancilla-assisted process tomography albeit the
proof was incomplete as they assumed trace nonincreasing quantum operations,
not quantum channels. We complete the proof of the equivalence and introduce
the generalization of faithfulness to various classes of quantum channels. We
also explore a more general notion we call sensitivity, the property of quantum
state being altered by any nontrivial action of quantum channel. We study their
relationship by characterizing both properties for important classes of quantum
channels such as unital channels, random unitary operations and unitary
operations. Unexpected (non-)equivalence results among them shed light on the
structure of quantum channels by showing that we need only two classes of
quantum states for characterizing quantum states faithful or sensitive to
various subclasses of quantum channels. For example, it reveals the relation
between quantum process tomography and quantum correlation as it turns out that
only bipartite states that has no local classical observable at all can be used
to sense the effect of unital channels.

The quantum kernel method has attracted considerable attention in the field
of quantum machine learning. However, exploring the applicability of quantum
kernels in more realistic settings has been hindered by the number of physical
qubits current noisy quantum computers have, thereby limiting the number of
features encoded for quantum kernels. Hence, there is a need for an efficient,
application-specific simulator for quantum computing by using classical
technology. Here we focus on quantum kernels empirically designed for image
classification and demonstrate a field programmable gate arrays (FPGA)
implementation. We show that the quantum kernel estimation by our heterogeneous
CPU-FPGA computing is 470 times faster than that by a conventional CPU
implementation. The co-design of our application-specific quantum kernel and
its efficient FPGA implementation enabled us to perform one of the largest
numerical simulations of a gate-based quantum kernel in terms of features, up
to 780-dimensional features. We apply our quantum kernel to classification
tasks using Fashion-MNIST dataset and show that our quantum kernel is
comparable to Gaussian kernels with the optimized hyperparameter.

Due to the recent groundbreaking developmentsof nanotechnologies,it became
possible to create intrinsically quantum systems able to serve as
high-directional antennas in THz, infrared and optical ranges. Actually, the
quantum antennas,as devices shaping light on thelevel of single
quanta,havealreadybecomethe key elements in nanooptics and nanoelectronics. The
quantum antennas are actively researched for possible implementations in
quantum communications, quantum imaging and sensing,andenergy harvesting.
However, the design and optimization of these emitting/receivingdevices
arestill rather undevelopedin comparisonwith the well-known methods for
conventional radio-frequency antennas. This review provides a discussion of the
recent achievements in the concept of the quantum antenna as an open quantum
systememitting via interaction with a photonic reservoir. We focuson bridging
the gap between quantum antennas and their macroscopic classical analogues. We
also discuss the ways of quantum-antennaimplementation for different
configurations basedon such materials, as plasmonic metals, carbon nanotubes,
and semiconductor quantum dots.

The increasing capabilities of quantum computing hardware and the challenge
of realizing deep quantum circuits require fully automated and efficient tools
for compiling quantum circuits. To express arbitrary circuits in a sequence of
native gates specific to the quantum computer architecture, it is necessary to
make algorithms portable across the landscape of quantum hardware providers. In
this work, we present a compiler capable of transforming and optimizing a
quantum circuit targeting a shuttling-based trapped-ion quantum processor. It
consists of custom algorithms set on top of the quantum circuit framework
Pytket. The performance was evaluated for a wide range of quantum circuits and
the results show that the gate counts can be reduced by factors up to 5.1
compared to standard Pytket and up to 2.2 compared to standard Qiskit
compilation.

Although quantum approximate optimization algorithm (QAOA) has demonstrated
its quantum supremacy, its performance on Noisy Intermediate-Scale Quantum
(NISQ) devices would be influenced by complicated noises, e.g., quantum colored
noises. To evaluate the performance of QAOA under these noises, this paper
presents a framework for running QAOA on non-Markovian quantum systems which
are represented by an augmented system model. In this model, a non-Markovian
environment carrying quantum colored noises is modelled as an ancillary system
driven by quantum white noises which is directly coupled to the corresponding
principal system; i.e., the computational unit for the algorithm. With this
model, we mathematically formulate QAOA as piecewise Hamiltonian control of the
augmented system, where we also optimize the control depth to fit into the
circuit depth of current quantum devices. For efficient simulation of QAOA in
non-Markovian quantum systems, a boosted algorithm using quantum trajectory is
further presented. Finally, we show that non-Markovianity can be utilized as a
quantum resource to achieve a relatively good performance of QAOA, which is
characterized by our proposed exploration rate.

Quantum computer provides new opportunities for quantum chemistry. In this
article, we present a versatile, extensible, and efficient software package,
named Q$^2$Chemistry, for developing quantum algorithms and quantum inspired
classical algorithms in the field of quantum chemistry. In Q$^2$Chemistry, wave
function and Hamiltonian can be conveniently mapped into the qubit space, then
quantum circuits can be generated according to a specific quantum algorithm
already implemented in the package or newly developed by the users. The
generated circuits can be dispatched to either a physical quantum computer, if
available, or to the internal virtual quantum computer realized by simulating
quantum circuit on classical supercomputers. As demonstrated by our benchmark
simulations with up to 72 qubit, Q$^2$Chemistry achieves excellent performance
in simulating medium scale quantum circuits. Application of Q$^2$Chemistry to
simulate molecules and periodic systems are given with performance analysis.

Quantum reservoir computing is a promising approach for quantum neural
networks, capable of solving hard learning tasks on both classical and quantum
input data. However, current approaches with qubits suffer from limited
connectivity. We propose an implementation for quantum reservoir that obtains a
large number of densely connected neurons by using parametrically coupled
quantum oscillators instead of physically coupled qubits. We analyse a specific
hardware implementation based on superconducting circuits: with just two
coupled quantum oscillators, we create a quantum reservoir comprising up to 81
neurons. We obtain state-of-the-art accuracy of 99 % on benchmark tasks that
otherwise require at least 24 classical oscillators to be solved. Our results
give the coupling and dissipation requirements in the system and show how they
affect the performance of the quantum reservoir. Beyond quantum reservoir
computing, the use of parametrically coupled bosonic modes holds promise for
realizing large quantum neural network architectures, with billions of neurons
implemented with only 10 coupled quantum oscillators.

One-way functions (OWF) are one of the most essential cryptographic
primitives, the existence of which results in wide-ranging ramifications such
as private-key encryption and proving $P \neq NP$. These OWFs are often thought
of as having classical input and output (i.e. binary strings), however, recent
work proposes OWF constructions where the input and/or the output can be
quantum. In this paper, we demonstrate that quantum-classical (i.e. quantum
input, classical output) OWFs can be used to produce classical-classical (i.e.
classical input, classical output) OWFs that retain the one-wayness property
against any quantum polynomial adversary (i.e. quantum-resistant). We
demonstrate this in two ways. Firstly, we propose a definition of
quantum-classical OWFs and show that the existence of such a quantum-classical
OWF would imply the existence of a classical-classical OWF. Secondly, we take a
proposed quantum-classical OWF and demonstrate how to turn it into a
classical-classical OWF. In summary, this paper showcases another possible
route into proving the existence of classical-classical OWFs (assuming
intermediate quantum computations are allowed) using a "domain-shifting"
technique between classical and quantum information, with the added bonus that
such OWFs are also going to be quantum-resistant.

Operator size growth describes the scrambling of operators in quantum
dynamics and stands out as an essential physical concept for characterizing
quantum chaos. Important as it is, a scheme for direct measuring operator size
on a quantum computer is still absent. Here, we propose a quantum algorithm for
direct measuring the operator size and its distribution based on Bell
measurement. The algorithm is verified with spin chains and meanwhile, the
effects of Trotterization error and quantum noise are analyzed. It is revealed
that saturation of operator size growth can be due to quantum chaos itself or
be a consequence of quantum noises, which make a distinction between quantum
integrable and chaotic systems difficulty on noisy quantum processors.
Nevertheless, it is found that the error mitigation will effectively reduce the
influence of noise, so as to restore the distinguishability of quantum chaotic
systems. Our work provides a feasible protocol for investigating quantum chaos
on noisy quantum computers by measuring operator size growth.

Quantum computing has considerable advantages in solving some problems over
its classical counterpart. Currently various physical systems are developed to
construct quantum computers but it is still challenging and the first use of
quantum computers may adopt the cloud style. Blind quantum computing (BQC)
provides a solution for clients with limited quantum capabilities to delegate
their quantum computation to remote quantum servers while keeping input,
output, and even algorithm private. In this paper, we propose three multi-party
verifiable blind quantum computing (VBQC) protocols with identity
authentication to handle clients with varying quantum capabilities in quantum
networks, such as those who can just make measurements, prepare single qubits,
or perform a few single-qubit gates. They are client-friendly and flexible
since the clients can achieve BQC depending on their own quantum devices and
resist both insider outsider attacks in quantum networks. Furthermore, all the
three proposed protocols are verifiable, namely that the clients can verify the
correctness of their calculations.

To execute quantum circuits on a quantum processor, they must be modified to
meet the physical constraints of the quantum device. This process, called
quantum circuit mapping, results in a gate/circuit depth overhead that depends
on both the circuit properties and the hardware constraints, being the limited
qubit connectivity a crucial restriction. In this paper, we propose to extend
the characterization of quantum circuits by including qubit interaction graph
properties using graph theory-based metrics in addition to previously used
circuit-describing parameters. This approach allows for in-depth analysis and
clustering of quantum circuits and a comparison of performance when run on
different quantum processors, aiding in developing better mapping techniques.
Our study reveals a correlation between interaction graph-based parameters and
mapping performance metrics for various existing configurations of quantum
devices. We also provide a comprehensive collection of quantum circuits and
algorithms for benchmarking future compilation techniques and quantum devices.

In the last decade, public and industrial research funding has moved quantum
computing from the early promises of Shor's algorithm through experiments to
the era of noisy intermediate scale quantum devices (NISQ) for solving
real-world problems. It is likely that quantum methods can efficiently solve
certain (NP-)hard optimization problems where classical approaches fail. In our
perspective, we examine the field of quantum optimization where we solve
optimisation problems using quantum computers. We demonstrate this through a
proper use case and discuss the current quality of quantum computers, their
solver capabilities, and benchmarking difficulties. Although we show a
proof-of-concept rather than a full benchmark, we use the results to emphasize
the importance of using appropriate metrics when comparing quantum and
classical methods. We conclude with discussion on some recent quantum
optimization breakthroughs and the current status and future directions.

Quantum machine learning is a rapidly growing field at the intersection of
quantum technology and artificial intelligence. This review provides a two-fold
overview of several key approaches that can offer advancements in both the
development of quantum technologies and the power of artificial intelligence.
Among these approaches are quantum-enhanced algorithms, which apply quantum
software engineering to classical information processing to improve keystone
machine learning solutions. In this context, we explore the capability of
hybrid quantum-classical neural networks to improve model generalization and
increase accuracy while reducing computational resources. We also illustrate
how machine learning can be used both to mitigate the effects of errors on
presently available noisy intermediate-scale quantum devices, and to understand
quantum advantage via an automatic study of quantum walk processes on graphs.
In addition, we review how quantum hardware can be enhanced by applying machine
learning to fundamental and applied physics problems as well as quantum
tomography and photonics. We aim to demonstrate how concepts in physics can be
translated into practical engineering of machine learning solutions using
quantum software.

Device independent detections of quantum non-locality like Bell-CHSH
inequality are important methods to detect quantum non-locality because the
whole protocol can be implemented by uncertified local observables. However,
this detection is not sufficient for the justification of standard quantum
theory, because there are theoretically many types of beyond-quantum non-local
states in General Probabilistic Theories. One important class is Entanglement
Structures (ESs), which contain beyond-quantum non-local states even though
their local systems are completely equivalent to standard quantum systems. This
paper shows that any device independent detection cannot distinguish
beyond-quantum non-local states from standard quantum states. To overcome this
problem, this paper gives a device dependent detection based on local
observables to distinguish any beyond-quantum non-local state from all standard
quantum states. Especially, we give a way to detect any beyond-quantum
non-local state in two-qubit ESs by observing only spin observables on local
systems.

The last five years have seen a dramatic evolution of platforms for quantum
computing, taking the field from physics experiments to quantum hardware and
software engineering. Nevertheless, despite this progress of quantum
processors, the field is still in the noisy intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ)
regime, seriously limiting the performance of software applications. Key issues
involve how to achieve quantum advantage in useful applications for quantum
optimization and materials science, connected to the concept of quantum
supremacy first demonstrated by Google in 2019. In this article we will
describe recent work to establish relevant benchmarks for quantum supremacy and
quantum advantage, present recent work on applications of variational quantum
algorithms for optimization and electronic structure determination, discuss how
to achieve practical quantum advantage, and finally outline current work and
ideas about how to scale up to competitive quantum systems.

No quantum system can be considered totally isolated from its environment. In
most cases the interaction between the system of interest and the external
degrees of freedom deeply changes its dynamics, as described by open quantum
system theory. Nevertheless, engineered environment can be turned into
beneficial effects for some quantum information tasks. Here we demonstrate an
optical simulator of a quantum system coupled to an arbitrary and
reconfigurable environment built as a complex network of quantum interacting
systems. We experimentally retrieve typical features of open quantum system
dynamics like the spectral density and quantum non-Markovianity, by exploiting
squeezing and entanglement correlation of a continuous variables optical
platform. This opens the way to the experimental tests of open quantum systems
in reconfigurable environments that are relevant in, among others, quantum
information, quantum thermodynamics, quantum transport and quantum
synchronization.

A quantum network is expected to enhance distributed quantum computing and
quantum communication over a long distance while providing unconditional
security. As quantum entanglement is essential for a quantum network, major
issues from various types of noise and decoherence prevent it from being
realized, and research has been intensively active to obtain optimal
configurations for a quantum network. In this work, we address the performance
of a quantum network capable of quantum error correction and entanglement
purification. Our results show that one should distribute Bell pairs as fast as
possible while balancing the deployment of fidelity enhancement. We also show
suitable hybrid strategies in quantum cryptography tasks under some noise
regimes that need to use purification and quantum error correction together.
Our results suggest that using purification to distribute high fidelity Bell
pairs and preserving them for application using quantum error correction is a
promising way to achieve a near-term quantum network for secure communication.

Quantum teleportation can transfer an unknown quantum state between distant
quantum nodes, which holds great promise in enabling large-scale quantum
networks. To advance the full potential of quantum teleportation, quantum
states must be faithfully transferred at a high rate over long distance.
Despite recent impressive advances, a high-rate quantum teleportation system
across metropolitan fiber networks is extremely desired. Here, we demonstrate a
quantum teleportation system which transfers quantum states carried by
independent photons at a rate of 7.1$\pm$0.4 Hz over 64-km-long fiber channel.
An average single-photon fidelity of $\geqslant$ 90.6$\pm$2.6% is achieved,
which exceeds the maximum fidelity of 2/3 in classical regime. Our result marks
an important milestone towards quantum networks and opens the door to exploring
quantum entanglement based informatic applications for the future quantum
internet.

A nonclassical light source is essential for implementing a wide range of
quantum information processing protocols, including quantum computing,
networking, communication, and metrology. In the microwave regime, propagating
photonic qubits that transfer quantum information between multiple
superconducting quantum chips serve as building blocks of large-scale quantum
computers. In this context, spectral control of propagating single photons is
crucial for interfacing different quantum nodes with varied frequencies and
bandwidth. Here we demonstrate a microwave quantum light source based on
superconducting quantum circuits that can generate propagating single photons,
time-bin encoded photonic qubits and qudits. In particular, the frequency of
the emitted photons can be tuned in situ as large as 200 MHz. Even though the
internal quantum efficiency of the light source is sensitive to the working
frequency, we show that the fidelity of the propagating photonic qubit can be
well preserved with the time-bin encoding scheme. Our work thus demonstrates a
versatile approach to realizing a practical quantum light source for future
distributed quantum computing.

The aim of this review is to highlight the possibility to apply the
mathematical formalism and methodology of quantum theory to model behaviour of
complex biosystems, from genomes and proteins to animals, humans, ecological
and social systems. Such models are known as quantum-like and they should be
distinguished from genuine quantum physical modeling of biological phenomena.
One of the distinguishing features of quantum-like models is their
applicability to macroscopic biosystems, or to be more precise, to information
processing in them. Quantum-like modeling has the base in quantum information
theory and it can be considered as one of the fruits of the quantum information
revolution. Since any isolated biosystem is dead, modeling of biological as
well as mental processes should be based on theory of open systems in its most
general form -- theory of open quantum systems. In this review we advertise its
applications to biology and cognition, especially theory of quantum instruments
and quantum master equation. We mention the possible interpretations of the
basic entities of quantum-like models with special interest to QBism is as may
be the most useful interpretation.

Optical photons are powerful carriers of quantum information, which can be
delivered in free space by satellites or in fibers on the ground over long
distances. Entanglement of quantum states over long distances can empower
quantum computing, quantum communications, and quantum sensing. Quantum optical
memories can effectively store and manipulate quantum states, which makes them
indispensable elements in future long-distance quantum networks. Over the past
two decades, quantum optical memories with high fidelity, high efficiencies,
long storage times, and promising multiplexing capabilities have been
developed, especially at the single photon level. In this review, we introduce
the working principles of commonly used quantum memory protocols and summarize
the recent advances in quantum memory demonstrations. We also offer a vision
for future quantum optical memory devices that may enable entanglement
distribution over long distances.

Emerging quantum hardware provides new possibilities for quantum simulation.
While much of the research has focused on simulating closed quantum systems,
the real-world quantum systems are mostly open. Therefore, it is essential to
develop quantum algorithms that can effectively simulate open quantum systems.
Here we present an adaptive variational quantum algorithm for simulating open
quantum system dynamics described by the Lindblad equation. The algorithm is
designed to build resource-efficient ansatze through the dynamical addition of
operators by maintaining the simulation accuracy. We validate the effectiveness
of our algorithm on both noiseless simulators and IBM quantum processors and
observe good quantitative and qualitative agreement with the exact solution. We
also investigate the scaling of the required resources with system size and
accuracy and find polynomial behavior. Our results demonstrate that near-future
quantum processors are capable of simulating open quantum systems.

Semidefinite programs (SDPs) are a class of optimisation problems that find
application in numerous areas of physics, engineering and mathematics.
Semidefinite programming is particularly suited to problems in quantum physics
and quantum information science. Following a review of the theory of
semidefinite programming, the book proceeds to describe how it can be used to
address a wide range of important problems from across quantum information
science. Specific applications include quantum state, measurement, and channel
estimation and discrimination, entanglement detection and quantification,
quantum distance measures, and measurement incompatibility. Though SDPs have
become an increasingly important tool in quantum information science it's not
yet the kind of mathematics students learn routinely. Assuming only a basic
knowledge of linear algebra and quantum physics and quantum information, this
graduate-level book provides a unified and accessible presentation of one of
the key numerical methods used in quantum information science.

Quantum interference is a central resource in many quantum-enhanced tasks,
from computation to communication protocols. While it usually occurs between
identical input photons, quantum interference can be enabled by projecting the
quantum state onto ambiguous properties that render the photons
indistinguishable, a process known as a quantum erasing. Structured light, on
the other hand, is another hallmark of photonics: it is achieved by
manipulating the degrees of freedom of light at the most basic level and
enables a multitude of applications in both classical and quantum regimes. By
combining these ideas, here we design and experimentally demonstrate a simple
and robust scheme that tailors quantum interference to engineer photonic states
with spatially structured coalescence along the transverse profile, a type of
quantum mode with no classical counterpart. To achieve this, we locally tune
the distinguishability of a photon pair via spatial structuring of their
polarisation, creating a structured quantum eraser. We believe these
spatially-engineered multi-photon quantum states may be of significance in
fields such as quantum metrology, microscopy, and communications.

Recent results in relativistic quantum information and quantum thermodynamics
have independently shown that in the quantum regime, a system may fail to
thermalise when subject to quantum-controlled application of the same, single
thermalisation channel. For example, an accelerating system with fixed proper
acceleration is known to thermalise to an acceleration-dependent temperature,
known as the Unruh temperature. However, the same system in a superposition of
spatially translated trajectories that share the same proper acceleration fails
to thermalise. Here, we provide an explanation of these results using the
framework of quantum field theory in relativistic noninertial reference frames.
We show how a probe that accelerates in a superposition of spatial translations
interacts with incommensurate sets of field modes. In special cases where the
modes are orthogonal (for example, when the Rindler wedges are translated in a
direction orthogonal to the plane of motion), thermalisation does indeed
result, corroborating the here provided explanation. We then discuss how this
description relates to an information-theoretic approach aimed at studying
quantum aspects of temperature through quantum-controlled thermalisations. The
present work draws a connection between research in quantum information,
relativistic physics, and quantum thermodynamics, in particular showing that
relativistic quantum effects can provide a natural realisation of quantum
thermodynamical scenarios.

We present a comprehensive approach to quantum simulations at both zero and
finite temperatures, employing a quantum information theoretic perspective and
utilizing the Clifford + $k$Rz transformations. We introduce the "quantum magic
ladder", a natural hierarchy formed by systematically augmenting Clifford
transformations with the addition of Rz gates. These classically simulable
similarity transformations allow us to reduce the quantumness of our system,
conserving vital quantum resources. This reduction in quantumness is essential,
as it simplifies the Hamiltonian and shortens physical circuit-depth,
overcoming constraints imposed by limited error correction. We improve the
performance of both digital and analog quantum computers on ground state and
finite temperature molecular simulations, not only outperforming the
Hartree-Fock solution, but also achieving consistent improvements as we ascend
the quantum magic ladder. By facilitating more efficient quantum simulations,
our approach enables near-term and early fault-tolerant quantum computers to
address novel challenges in quantum chemistry.

The quest for quantum advantage, wherein quantum computers surpass the
computational capabilities of classical computers executing state-of-the-art
algorithms on well-defined tasks, represents a pivotal race in the domain of
quantum computing. NISQ (Noisy Intermediate-Scale Quantum) computing has
witnessed remarkable advancements, culminating in significant milestones on the
journey towards the realization of universal fault-tolerant quantum computers.
This transformative turning point, known as quantum supremacy, has been
achieved amid a series of breakthroughs, signifying the dawn of the quantum
era. Quantum hardware has undergone substantial integration and architectural
evolution, contrasting with its nascent stages. In this review, we critically
examine the quantum supremacy experiments conducted thus far, shedding light on
their implications and contributions to the evolving landscape of quantum
computing. Additionally, we endeavor to illuminate a range of cutting-edge
proof-of-principle investigations in the realm of applied quantum computing,
providing an insightful overview of the current state of applied quantum
research and its prospective influence across diverse scientific, industrial,
and technological frontiers.

Distributed quantum computing is motivated by the difficulty in building
large-scale, individual quantum computers. To solve that problem, a large
quantum circuit is partitioned and distributed to small quantum computers for
execution. Partitions running on different quantum computers share quantum
information using entangled Bell pairs. However, entanglement generation and
purification introduces both a runtime and memory overhead on distributed
quantum computing. In this paper we study that trade-off by proposing two
techniques for partitioning large quantum circuits and for distribution to
small quantum computers. Our techniques map a quantum circuit to a graph
representation. We study two approaches: one that considers only gate
teleportation, and another that considers both gate and state teleportation to
achieve the distributed execution. Then we apply the METIS graph partitioning
algorithm to obtain the partitions and the number of entanglement requests
between them. We use the SeQUeNCe quantum communication simulator to measure
the time required for generating all the entanglements required to execute the
distributed circuit. We find that the best partitioning technique will depend
on the specific circuit of interest.

The delayed-choice quantum eraser has been intensively studied for the
wave-particle duality of a single photon in an interferometric system over the
last decades. Coincidence measurements between quantum erasers have also been
applied for the nonlocal quantum feature, satisfying the Bell inequality
violation. However, those quantum features have not been clearly understood
yet, resulting in the quantum mystery. Recently a coherence approach has been
tried for the quantum eraser to unveil the quantum mystery. Here, a phase
quantization of higher-order intensity products between coherently controlled
quantum erasers is presented using a quarter wave plate-induced phase shift
between orthogonal polarization bases of a single photon. Theoretical solutions
of both photonic-de-Broglie-wave-like quantum features and nonlocal quantum
correlations are presented for further discussions of quantum mechanics.

In recent years, achieving verifiable quantum advantage on a NISQ device has
emerged as an important open problem in quantum information. The sampling-based
quantum advantages are not known to have efficient verification methods. This
paper investigates the verification of quantum advantage from a cryptographic
perspective. We establish a strong connection between the verifiability of
quantum advantage and cryptographic and complexity primitives, including
efficiently samplable, statistically far but computationally indistinguishable
pairs of (mixed) quantum states ($\mathsf{EFI}$), pseudorandom states
($\mathsf{PRS}$), and variants of minimum circuit size problems
($\mathsf{MCSP}$). Specifically, we prove that a) a sampling-based quantum
advantage is either verifiable or can be used to build $\mathsf{EFI}$ and even
$\mathsf{PRS}$ and b) polynomial-time algorithms for a variant of
$\mathsf{MCSP}$ would imply efficient verification of quantum advantages.
  Our work shows that the quest for verifiable quantum advantages may lead to
applications of quantum cryptography, and the construction of quantum
primitives can provide new insights into the verifiability of quantum
advantages.

We explore the quantum correlations, fidelity and quantum thermodynamics of
two coupled double quantum dots containing two excess electrons. In this
regard, we investigate and compare the evolution of those measures under
thermal effects and tunneling coupling. We find the hierarchy of quantum
correlations, and one-way steering between the two quantum dots. We found, as
expect that the quantum correlations are diminishes by increasing the values of
temperature. We show that this state can be used for quantum teleportation. On
the other, we address the extracting work and efficiency of the state. We
compare the extraction work with the bare energies. Our results show that
quantum dots states have a reliable and better capacity to preserve quantum
correlations and remain one of the good resources for the deployment of quantum
information processing protocols.

We propose and demonstrate that the behaviors of long-range, two-site quantum
resources can effectively diagnose quantum phases. In an XX spin chain with
symmetry-breaking quantum phase transitions, we reveal that the asymptotic and
oscillating decay modes of quantum coherence or quantum discord, along with
two-site distance, can identify two spin-liquid phases. Furthermore, based on
our analytical results of spin correlation functions, we confirm the existence
of long-range entanglement in the system and establish a connection between
two-site entanglement and quantum phases. Additionally, for the extended Ising
model with topological phase transitions, we find that coherence and quantum
discord behaviors can also signify topological quantum phases. In particular,
we discover the quantum resource freezing phenomenon, where topologically
protected long-range quantum resources may have potential applications in
quantum information processing.

A generic architecture of n-bit quantum operators is proposed for
cost-effective transpilation, based on the layouts and the number of n neighbor
physical qubits for IBM quantum computers, where n >= 3. This proposed
architecture is termed "GALA-n quantum operator". The GALA-n quantum operator
is designed using the visual approach of the Bloch sphere, from the visual
representations of the rotational quantum operations for IBM native gates
(square root of X, X, RZ, and CNOT). In this paper, we also proposed a new
formula for the quantum cost, which calculates the total numbers of native
gates, SWAP gates, and the depth of the final transpiled quantum circuits. This
formula is termed the "transpilation quantum cost". After transpilation, our
proposed GALA-n quantum operator always has a lower transpilation quantum cost
than that of conventional n-bit quantum operators, which are mainly constructed
from costly n-bit Toffoli gates.

Quantum kernel methods are promising candidates for achieving a practical
quantum advantage for certain machine learning tasks. Similar to classical
machine learning, an exact form of a quantum kernel is expected to have a great
impact on the model performance. In this work we combine all trace-induced
quantum kernels, including the commonly-used global fidelity and local
projected quantum kernels, into a common framework. We show how generalized
trace-induced quantum kernels can be constructed as combinations of the
fundamental building blocks we coin "Lego" kernels, which impose an inductive
bias on the resulting quantum models. We relate the expressive power and
generalization ability to the number of non-zero weight Lego kernels and
propose a systematic approach to increase the complexity of a quantum kernel
model, leading to a new form of the local projected kernels that require fewer
quantum resources in terms of the number of quantum gates and measurement
shots. We show numerically that models based on local projected kernels can
achieve comparable performance to the global fidelity quantum kernel. Our work
unifies existing quantum kernels and provides a systematic framework to compare
their properties.

We employ quantum circuit learning to simulate quantum field theories (QFTs).
Typically, when simulating QFTs with quantum computers, we encounter
significant challenges due to the technical limitations of quantum devices when
implementing the Hamiltonian using Pauli spin matrices. To address this
challenge, we leverage quantum circuit learning, employing a compact
configuration of qubits and low-depth quantum circuits to predict real-time
dynamics in quantum field theories. The key advantage of this approach is that
a single-qubit measurement can accurately forecast various physical parameters,
including fully-connected operators. To demonstrate the effectiveness of our
method, we use it to predict quench dynamics, chiral dynamics and jet
production in a 1+1-dimensional model of quantum electrodynamics. We find that
our predictions closely align with the results of rigorous classical
calculations, exhibiting a high degree of accuracy. This hybrid
quantum-classical approach illustrates the feasibility of efficiently
simulating large-scale QFTs on cutting-edge quantum devices.

Distributed quantum computing, particularly distributed quantum machine
learning, has gained substantial prominence for its capacity to harness the
collective power of distributed quantum resources, transcending the limitations
of individual quantum nodes. Meanwhile, the critical concern of privacy within
distributed computing protocols remains a significant challenge, particularly
in standard classical federated learning (FL) scenarios where data of
participating clients is susceptible to leakage via gradient inversion attacks
by the server. This paper presents innovative quantum protocols with quantum
communication designed to address the FL problem, strengthen privacy measures,
and optimize communication efficiency. In contrast to previous works that
leverage expressive variational quantum circuits or differential privacy
techniques, we consider gradient information concealment using quantum states
and propose two distinct FL protocols, one based on private inner-product
estimation and the other on incremental learning. These protocols offer
substantial advancements in privacy preservation with low communication
resources, forging a path toward efficient quantum communication-assisted FL
protocols and contributing to the development of secure distributed quantum
machine learning, thus addressing critical privacy concerns in the quantum
computing era.

Leveraging the extraordinary phenomena of quantum superposition and quantum
correlation, quantum computing offers unprecedented potential for addressing
challenges beyond the reach of classical computers. This paper tackles two
pivotal challenges in the realm of quantum computing: firstly, the development
of an effective encoding protocol for translating classical data into quantum
states, a critical step for any quantum computation. Different encoding
strategies can significantly influence quantum computer performance. Secondly,
we address the need to counteract the inevitable noise that can hinder quantum
acceleration. Our primary contribution is the introduction of a novel
variational data encoding method, grounded in quantum regression algorithm
models. By adapting the learning concept from machine learning, we render data
encoding a learnable process. Through numerical simulations of various
regression tasks, we demonstrate the efficacy of our variational data encoding,
particularly post-learning from instructional data. Moreover, we delve into the
role of quantum correlation in enhancing task performance, especially in noisy
environments. Our findings underscore the critical role of quantum correlation
in not only bolstering performance but also in mitigating noise interference,
thus advancing the frontier of quantum computing.

Quantum computing offers significant acceleration capabilities over its
classical counterpart in various application domains. Consequently, there has
been substantial focus on improving quantum computing capabilities. However, to
date, the security implications of these quantum computing platforms have been
largely overlooked. With the emergence of cloud-based quantum computing
services, it is critical to investigate the extension of classical computer
security threats to the realm of quantum computing.
  In this study, we investigated timing-based side-channel vulnerabilities
within IBM's cloud-based quantum service. The proposed attack effectively
subverts the confidentiality of the executed quantum algorithm, using a more
realistic threat model compared to existing approaches. Our experimental
results, conducted using IBM's quantum cloud service, demonstrate that with
just 10 measurements, it is possible to identify the underlying quantum
computer that executed the circuit. Moreover, when evaluated using the popular
Grover circuit, we showcase the ability to leak the quantum oracle with a mere
500 measurements. These findings underline the pressing need to address
timing-based vulnerabilities in quantum computing platforms and advocate for
enhanced security measures to safeguard sensitive quantum algorithms and data.

Recent advances in quantum information science have shed light on the
intricate dynamics of quantum many-body systems, for which quantum information
scrambling is a perfect example. Motivated by considerations of the
thermodynamics of quantum information, this perspective aims at synthesizing
key findings from several pivotal studies and exploring various aspects of
quantum scrambling. We consider quantifiers such as the Out-of-Time-Ordered
Correlator (OTOC), the quantum Mutual Information, and the Tripartite Mutual
Information (TMI), their connections to thermodynamics, and their role in
understanding chaotic versus integrable quantum systems. With a focus on
representative examples, we cover a range of topics, including the
thermodynamics of quantum information scrambling, and the scrambling dynamics
in quantum gravity models such as the Sachdev-Ye-Kitaev (SYK) model. Examining
these diverse approaches enables us to highlight the multifaceted nature of
quantum information scrambling and its significance in understanding the
fundamental aspects of quantum many-body dynamics at the intersection of
quantum mechanics and thermodynamics.

Gate-defined quantum dots define an attractive platform for quantum
computation and have been used to confine individual charges in a planar array.
Here, we demonstrate control over vertical double quantum dots confined in a
double quantum well, silicon-germanium heterostructure. We sense individual
charge transitions with a single-hole transistor. The vertical separation
between the quantum wells provides a sufficient difference in capacitive
coupling to distinguish quantum dots located in the top and bottom quantum
well. Tuning the vertical double quantum dot to the (1,1) charge state confines
a single hole in each quantum well beneath a single plunger gate. By
simultaneously accumulating holes under two neighbouring plunger gates, we are
able to tune to the (1,1,1,1) charge state. These results motivate quantum dot
systems that exploit the third dimension, opening new opportunities for quantum
simulation and quantum computing.

Counterfactual quantum communication is one of the most interesting facets of
quantum communication, allowing two parties to communicate without any
transmission of quantum or classical particles between the parties involved in
the communication process. This aspect of quantum communication originates from
the interaction-free measurements where the chained quantum Zeno effect plays
an important role. Here, we propose a new counterfactual quantum communication
protocol for transmitting an entangled state from a pair of electrons to two
independent photons. Interestingly, the protocol proposed here shows that the
counterfactual method can be employed to transfer information from house qubits
to flying qubits. Following this, we show that the protocol finds uses in
building quantum repeaters leading to a counterfactual quantum network,
enabling counterfactual communication over a linear quantum network.

Quantum kernel methods have been widely recognized as one of promising
quantum machine learning algorithms that have potential to achieve quantum
advantages. In this paper, we theoretically characterize the power of noisy
quantum kernels and demonstrate that under global depolarization noise, for
different input data the predictions of the optimal hypothesis inferred by the
noisy quantum kernel approximately concentrate towards some fixed value. In
particular, we depict the convergence rate in terms of the strength of quantum
noise, the size of training samples, the number of qubits, the number of layers
affected by quantum noises, as well as the number of measurement shots. Our
results show that noises may make quantum kernel methods to only have poor
prediction capability, even when the generalization error is small. Thus, we
provide a crucial warning to employ noisy quantum kernel methods for quantum
computation and the theoretical results can also serve as guidelines when
developing practical quantum kernel algorithms for achieving quantum
advantages.

This paper provides an introduction to quantum machine learning, exploring
the potential benefits of using quantum computing principles and algorithms
that may improve upon classical machine learning approaches. Quantum computing
utilizes particles governed by quantum mechanics for computational purposes,
leveraging properties like superposition and entanglement for information
representation and manipulation. Quantum machine learning applies these
principles to enhance classical machine learning models, potentially reducing
network size and training time on quantum hardware. The paper covers basic
quantum mechanics principles, including superposition, phase space, and
entanglement, and introduces the concept of quantum gates that exploit these
properties. It also reviews classical deep learning concepts, such as
artificial neural networks, gradient descent, and backpropagation, before
delving into trainable quantum circuits as neural networks. An example problem
demonstrates the potential advantages of quantum neural networks, and the
appendices provide detailed derivations. The paper aims to help researchers new
to quantum mechanics and machine learning develop their expertise more
efficiently.

Solving inverse problems to identify Hamiltonians with desired properties
holds promise for the discovery of fundamental principles. In quantum systems,
quantum entanglement plays a pivotal role in not only characterizing the
quantum nature but also developing quantum technology like quantum computing.
Nonetheless, the design principles of the quantum entanglement are yet to be
clarified. Here we apply an inverse design framework using automatic
differentiation to quantum spin systems, aiming to construct Hamiltonians with
large quantum entanglement. We show that the method automatically finds the
Kitaev model with bond-dependent anisotropic interactions, whose ground state
is a quantum spin liquid, on both honeycomb and square-octagon lattices. On
triangular and maple-leaf lattices with geometrical frustration, it generates
numerous solutions with spatially inhomogeneous interactions rather than
converging to a specific model, but it still helps to construct unprecedented
models. The comparative study reveals that bond-dependent anisotropic
interactions, rather than isotropic Heisenberg interactions, amplify quantum
entanglement, even in systems with geometrical frustration. The present study
paves the way for the automatic design of new quantum systems with desired
quantum nature and functionality.

We introduce a new class of computer called a quantum frequential computer.
They harness quantum properties in a different way to conventional quantum
computers to generate a quadratic computational run time advantage for all
algorithms as a function of the power consumed. They come in two variants: type
1 can process classical algorithms only while type 2 can also process quantum
ones. In a type-1 quantum frequential computer, only the control is quantum,
while in a type 2 the logical space is also quantum. We also prove that a
quantum frequential computer only requires a classical data bus to function.
This is useful, because it means that only a relatively small part of the
overall architecture of the computer needs to be quantum in a type-1 quantum
frequential computer in order to achieve a quadratic run time advantage. As
with classical and conventional quantum computers, quantum frequential
computers also generate heat and require cooling. We also characterise these
requirements.

Quantum algorithms provide a potential strategy for solving computational
problems that are intractable by classical means. Computing the topological
invariants of topological matter is one central problem in research on quantum
materials, and a variety of numerical approaches for this purpose have been
developed. However, the complexity of quantum many-body Hamiltonians makes
calculations of topological invariants challenging for interacting systems.
Here, we present two quantum circuits for calculating Chern numbers of
two-dimensional quantum matter on quantum computers. Both circuits combine a
gate-based adiabatic time-evolution over the discretized Brillouin zone with
particular phase estimation techniques. The first algorithm uses many qubits,
and we analyze it using a tensor-network simulator of quantum circuits. The
second circuit uses fewer qubits, and we implement it experimentally on a
quantum computer based on superconducting qubits. Our results establish a
method for computing topological invariants with quantum circuits, taking a
step towards characterizing interacting topological quantum matter using
quantum computers.

As quantum computing evolves, many important questions emerge, such as how
best to represent quantum programs, and how to promote interoperability between
quantum program analysis tools. These questions arise naturally in the design
of quantum transpilers, which translate between quantum programming languages.
In this paper, we take a step towards answering these questions by identifying
challenges and best practices in quantum transpiler design. We base these
recommendations on our experience designing LinguaQuanta, a quantum transpiler
between Quipper and OpenQASM. First, we provide categorical specifications for
quantum transpilers, which aim to encapsulate the core principles of the UNIX
philosophy. We then identify quantum circuit decompositions which we expect to
be useful in quantum transpilation. With these foundations in place, we then
discuss challenges faced during the implementation of LinguaQuanta, such as
ancilla management and stability under round translation. To show that
LinguaQuanta works in practice, a short tutorial is given for the example of
quantum phase estimation. We conclude with recommendations for the future of
LinguaQuanta, and for quantum software development tools more broadly.

Quantum computers are believed to bring computational advantages in
simulating quantum many body systems. However, recent works have shown that
classical machine learning algorithms are able to predict numerous properties
of quantum systems with classical data. Despite various examples of learning
tasks with provable quantum advantages being proposed, they all involve
cryptographic functions and do not represent any physical scenarios encountered
in laboratory settings. In this paper we prove quantum advantages for the
physically relevant task of learning quantum observables from classical
(measured out) data. We consider two types of observables: first we prove a
learning advantage for linear combinations of Pauli strings, then we extend the
result for the broader case of unitarily parametrized observables. For each
type of observable we delineate the boundaries that separate physically
relevant tasks which classical computers can solve using data from quantum
measurements, from those where a quantum computer is still necessary for data
analysis. Our results shed light on the utility of quantum computers for
machine learning problems in the domain of quantum many body physics, thereby
suggesting new directions where quantum learning improvements may emerge.

A quantum causal topology is presented. This is modeled after a
non-commutative scheme type of theory for the curved finitary spacetime sheaves
of the non-abelian incidence Rota algebras that represent `gravitational
quantum causal sets'. The finitary spacetime primitive algebra scheme
structures for quantum causal sets proposed here are interpreted as the
kinematics of a curved and reticular local quantum causality. Dynamics for
quantum causal sets is then represented by appropriate scheme morphisms, thus
it has a purely categorical description that is manifestly `gauge-independent'.
Hence, a schematic version of the Principle of General Covariance of General
Relativity is formulated for the dynamically variable quantum causal sets. We
compare our non-commutative scheme-theoretic curved quantum causal topology
with some recent $C^{*}$-quantale models for non-abelian generalizations of
classical commutative topological spaces or locales, as well as with some
relevant recent results obtained from applying sheaf and topos-theoretic ideas
to quantum logic proper. Motivated by the latter, we organize our finitary
spacetime primitive algebra schemes of curved quantum causal sets into a
topos-like structure, coined `quantum topos', and argue that it is a sound
model of a structure that Selesnick has anticipated to underlie Finkelstein's
reticular and curved quantum causal net. At the end we conjecture that the
fundamental quantum time-asymmetry that Penrose has expected to be the main
characteristic of the elusive `true quantum gravity' is possibly of a
kinematical or structural rather than of a dynamical character, and we also
discuss the possibility of a unified description of quantum logic and quantum
gravity in quantum topos-theoretic terms.

We discuss the capacity of quantum channels for information transmission and
storage. Quantum channels have dual uses: they can be used to transmit known
quantum states which code for classical information, and they can be used in a
purely quantum manner, for transmitting or storing quantum entanglement. We
propose here a definition of the von Neumann capacity of quantum channels,
which is a quantum mechanical extension of the Shannon capacity and reverts to
it in the classical limit. As such, the von Neumann capacity assumes the role
of a classical or quantum capacity depending on the usage of the channel. In
analogy to the classical construction, this capacity is defined as the maximum
von Neumann mutual entropy processed by the channel, a measure which reduces to
the capacity for classical information transmission through quantum channels
(the "Kholevo capacity") when known quantum states are sent. The quantum mutual
entropy fulfills all basic requirements for a measure of information, and
observes quantum data-processing inequalities. We also derive a quantum Fano
inequality relating the quantum loss of the channel to the fidelity of the
quantum code. The quantities introduced are calculated explicitly for the
quantum "depolarizing" channel. The von Neumann capacity is interpreted within
the context of superdense coding, and an "extended" Hamming bound is derived
that is consistent with that capacity.

The subject of quantum computing brings together ideas from classical
information theory, computer science, and quantum physics. This review aims to
summarise not just quantum computing, but the whole subject of quantum
information theory. It turns out that information theory and quantum mechanics
fit together very well. In order to explain their relationship, the review
begins with an introduction to classical information theory and computer
science, including Shannon's theorem, error correcting codes, Turing machines
and computational complexity. The principles of quantum mechanics are then
outlined, and the EPR experiment described. The EPR-Bell correlations, and
quantum entanglement in general, form the essential new ingredient which
distinguishes quantum from classical information theory, and, arguably, quantum
from classical physics. Basic quantum information ideas are described,
including key distribution, teleportation, data compression, quantum error
correction, the universal quantum computer and quantum algorithms. The common
theme of all these ideas is the use of quantum entanglement as a computational
resource. Experimental methods for small quantum processors are briefly
sketched, concentrating on ion traps, high Q cavities, and NMR. The review
concludes with an outline of the main features of quantum information physics,
and avenues for future research.

The quantum Fourier transform (QFT), a quantum analog of the classical
Fourier transform, has been shown to be a powerful tool in developing quantum
algorithms. However, in classical computing there is another class of unitary
transforms, the wavelet transforms, which are every bit as useful as the
Fourier transform. Wavelet transforms are used to expose the multi-scale
structure of a signal and are likely to be useful for quantum image processing
and quantum data compression. In this paper, we derive efficient, complete,
quantum circuits for two representative quantum wavelet transforms, the quantum
Haar and quantum Daubechies $D^{(4)}$ transforms. Our approach is to factor the
operators for these transforms into direct sums, direct products and dot
products of unitary matrices. In so doing, we find that permutation matrices, a
particular class of unitary matrices, play a pivotal role. Surprisingly, we
find that operations that are easy and inexpensive to implement classically are
not always easy and inexpensive to implement quantum mechanically, and vice
versa. In particular, the computational cost of performing certain permutation
matrices is ignored classically because they can be avoided explicitly.
However, quantum mechanically, these permutation operations must be performed
explicitly and hence their cost enters into the full complexity measure of the
quantum transform. We consider the particular set of permutation matrices
arising in quantum wavelet transforms and develop efficient quantum circuits
that implement them. This allows us to design efficient, complete quantum
circuits for the quantum wavelet transform.

The purpose of these lecture notes is to provide readers, who have some
mathematical background but little or no exposure to quantum mechanics and
quantum computation, with enough material to begin reading the research
literature in quantum computation and quantum information theory. This paper is
a written version of the first of eight one hour lectures given in the American
Mathematical Society (AMS) Short Course on Quantum Computation held in
conjunction with the Annual Meeting of the AMS in Washington, DC, USA in
January 2000, and will appear in the AMS PSAPM volume entitled "Quantum
Computation."
  Part 1 of the paper is an introduction the to the concept of the qubit.
  Part 2 gives an introduction to quantum mechanics covering such topics as
Dirac notation, quantum measurement, Heisenberg uncertainty, Schrodinger's
equation, density operators, partial trace, multipartite quantum systems, the
Heisenberg versus the Schrodinger picture, quantum entanglement, EPR paradox,
quantum entropy.
  Part 3 gives a brief introduction to quantum computation, covering such
topics as elementary quantum computing devices, wiring diagrams, the no-cloning
theorem, quantum teleportation, Shor's algorithm, Grover's algorithm.
  Many examples are given. A table of contents as well as an index are provided
for readers who wish to "pick and choose." Since this paper is intended for a
diverse audience, it is written in an informal style at varying levels of
difficulty and sophistication from the very elementary to the more advanced.

The quantum search problem is an important problem due to the fact that a
general NP problem can be solved efficiently by an unsorted quantum search
algorithm. Here it has been shown that the quantum search problem could be
solved in polynomial time on an NMR quantum computer. The NMR ensemble quantum
computation is based on the quantum mechanical unitary dynamics that both a
closed quantum system and its ensemble obey the same quantum mechanical unitary
dynamics instead of on the pseudopure state or the effective pure state of the
classical NMR quantum computation. Based on the new principle the conventional
NMR multiple-quantum spectroscopy has been developed to solve experimentally
the search problem. The solution information of the search problem is first
loaded on the unitary evolution propagator which is constructed with the oracle
unitary operation and oracle-independent unitary operations and is used to
excite the multiple-quantum coherence in a spin ensemble. Then the multiple-
quantum spectroscopy is used to extract experimentally the solution
information. It has been discussed how to enhance the output NMR signal of the
quantum search NMR multiple-quantum pulse sequence and some approaches to
enhancing the NMR signal are also proposed. The present work could be helpful
for conventional high field NMR machines to solve efficiently the quantum
search problem.

A Markovian model for a quantum automata, i.e. an open quantum dynamical
discrete-time system with input and output channels and a feedback, is
described. A dynamical theory of quantum discrete-time adaptive measurements
and multi-stage quantum statistical decisions is developed and applied to the
optimal feedback control problem for the quantum dynamical objects. Quantum
analogies of Stratonovich non-stationary filtering, and Bellman quantum
dynamical programming in the discrete time are derived.
  A Gaussian Langevin model of the quantum one-dimensional linear Markovian
dynamical system matched with a quantum linear transmission line as an
input-output quantum noisy channel is studied. The optimal quantum multi-stage
decision rule consisting of a classical linear optimal control strategy and the
quantum optimal filtering of the noise is found. The latter contains the
optimal quantum coherent measurement on the output of the line and the
recursive processing by the Kalman filter.
  A time-continuous limit of the above model is considered, and the quantum
nondemolition measurement, time-continuous filtering and the optimal dynamical
programming are found in this limit. All the results are illustrated by an
example of the optimal control problem for a quantum open oscillator matched to
a quantum transmission line.

This thesis establishes a number of connections between foundational issues
in quantum theory, and some quantum information applications. It starts with a
review of quantum contextuality and non-locality, multipartite entanglement
characterisation, and of a few quantum information protocols.
  Quantum non-locality and contextuality are shown to be essential for
different implementations of quantum information protocols known as quantum
random access codes and quantum communication complexity protocols. I derive
sufficient experimental conditions for tests of these quantum properties.
  I also discuss how the distribution of quantum information through quantum
cloning processes can be useful in quantum computing. Regarding entanglement
characterisation, some results are obtained relating two problems, that of
additivity of the relative entropy of entanglement, and that of identifying
different types of tripartite entanglement in the asymptotic regime of
manipulations of many copies of a given state.
  The thesis ends with a description of an information processing task in which
a single qubit substitutes for an arbitrarily large amount of classical
communication. This result is interpreted in different ways: as a gap between
quantum and classical computation space complexity; as a bound on the amount of
classical communication necessary to simulate entanglement; and as a basic
result on hidden-variable theories for quantum mechanics. I also show that the
advantage of quantum over classical communication can be established in a
feasible experiment.

In this paper, we give a precise and workable definition of a quantum knot
system, the states of which are called quantum knots. This definition can be
viewed as a blueprint for the construction of an actual physical quantum
system.
  Moreover, this definition of a quantum knot system is intended to represent
the "quantum embodiment" of a closed knotted physical piece of rope. A quantum
knot, as a state of this system, represents the state of such a knotted closed
piece of rope, i.e., the particular spatial configuration of the knot tied in
the rope. Associated with a quantum knot system is a group of unitary
transformations, called the ambient group, which represents all possible ways
of moving the rope around (without cutting the rope, and without letting the
rope pass through itself.)
  Of course, unlike a classical closed piece of rope, a quantum knot can
exhibit non-classical behavior, such as quantum superposition and quantum
entanglement. This raises some interesting and puzzling questions about the
relation between topological and quantum entanglement.
  The knot type of a quantum knot is simply the orbit of the quantum knot under
the action of the ambient group. We investigate quantum observables which are
invariants of quantum knot type. We also study the Hamiltonians associated with
the generators of the ambient group, and briefly look at the quantum tunneling
of overcrossings into undercrossings.
  A basic building block in this paper is a mosaic system which is a formal
(rewriting) system of symbol strings. We conjecture that this formal system
fully captures in an axiomatic way all of the properties of tame knot theory.

Quantum networks are composed of quantum nodes that interact coherently by
way of quantum channels and open a broad frontier of scientific opportunities.
For example, a quantum network can serve as a `web' for connecting quantum
processors for computation and communication, as well as a `simulator' for
enabling investigations of quantum critical phenomena arising from interactions
among the nodes mediated by the channels. The physical realization of quantum
networks generically requires dynamical systems capable of generating and
storing entangled states among multiple quantum memories, and of efficiently
transferring stored entanglement into quantum channels for distribution across
the network. While such capabilities have been demonstrated for diverse
bipartite systems (i.e., N=2 quantum systems), entangled states with N > 2 have
heretofore not been achieved for quantum interconnects that coherently `clock'
multipartite entanglement stored in quantum memories to quantum channels. Here,
we demonstrate high-fidelity measurement-induced entanglement stored in four
atomic memories; user-controlled, coherent transfer of atomic entanglement to
four photonic quantum channels; and the characterization of the full
quadripartite entanglement by way of quantum uncertainty relations. Our work
thereby provides an important tool for the distribution of multipartite
entanglement across quantum networks.

Many physicists limit oneself to an instrumentalist description of quantum
phenomena and ignore the problems of foundation and interpretation of quantum
mechanics. This instrumentalist approach results to "specialization barbarism"
and mass delusion concerning the problem, how a quantum computer can be made.
The idea of quantum computation can be described within the limits of quantum
formalism. But in order to understand how this idea can be put into practice
one should realize the question: "What could the quantum formalism describe?",
in spite of the absence of an universally recognized answer. Only a realization
of this question and the undecided problem of quantum foundations allows to see
in which quantum systems the superposition and EPR correlation could be
expected. Because of the "specialization barbarism" many authors are sure that
Bell proved full impossibility of any hidden-variables interpretation.
Therefore it is important to emphasize that in reality Bell has restricted to
validity limits of the no- hidden-variables proof and has shown that two-state
quantum system can be described by hidden variables. The later means that no
experimental result obtained on two-state quantum system can prove the
existence of superposition and violation of the realism. One should not assume
before unambiguous experimental evidence that any two-state quantum system is
quantum bit. No experimental evidence of superposition of macroscopically
distinct quantum states and of a quantum bit on base of superconductor
structure was obtained for the present. Moreover same experimental results can
not be described in the limits of the quantum formalism.

Although the study of ultracold quantum gases trapped by light is a prominent
direction of modern research, the quantum properties of light were widely
neglected in this field. Quantum optics with quantum gases closes this gap and
addresses phenomena, where the quantum statistical nature of both light and
ultracold matter play equally important roles. First, light can serve as a
quantum nondemolition (QND) probe of the quantum dynamics of various ultracold
particles from ultracold atomic and molecular gases to nanoparticles and
nanomechanical systems. Second, due to dynamic light-matter entanglement,
projective measurement-based preparation of the many-body states is possible,
where the class of emerging atomic states can be designed via optical geometry.
Light scattering constitutes such a quantum measurement with controllable
measurement back-action. As in cavity-based spin squeezing, atom number
squeezed and Schroedinger cat states can be prepared. Third, trapping atoms
inside an optical cavity one creates optical potentials and forces, which are
not prescribed but quantized and dynamical variables themselves. Ultimately,
cavity QED with quantum gases requires a self-consistent solution for light and
particles, which enriches the picture of quantum many-body states of atoms
trapped in quantum potentials. This will allow quantum simulations of phenomena
related to the physics of phonons, polarons, polaritons and other quantum
quasiparticles.

Quantum entanglement is widely recognized as one of the key resources for the
advantages of quantum information processing, including universal quantum
computation, reduction of communication complexity or secret key distribution.
However, computational models have been discovered, which consume very little
or no entanglement and still can efficiently solve certain problems thought to
be classically intractable. The existence of these models suggests that
separable or weakly entangled states could be extremely useful tools for
quantum information processing as they are much easier to prepare and control
even in dissipative environments. It has been proposed that a requirement for
useful quantum states is the generation of so-called quantum discord, a measure
of non-classical correlations that includes entanglement as a subset. Although
a link between quantum discord and few quantum information tasks has been
studied, its role in computation speed-up is still open and its operational
interpretation remains restricted to only few somewhat contrived situations.
Here we show that quantum discord is the optimal resource for the remote
quantum state preparation, a variant of the quantum teleportation protocol.
Using photonic quantum systems, we explicitly show that the geometric measure
of quantum discord is related to the fidelity of this task, which provides an
operational meaning. Moreover, we demonstrate that separable states with
non-zero quantum discord can outperform entangled states. Therefore, the role
of quantum discord might provide fundamental insights for resource-efficient
quantum information processing.

We present a framework for relativistic quantum metrology that is useful for
both Earth-based and space-based technologies. Quantum metrology has been so
far successfully applied to design precision instruments such as clocks and
sensors which outperform classical devices by exploiting quantum properties.
There are advanced plans to implement these and other quantum technologies in
space, for instance Space-QUEST and Space Optical Clock projects intend to
implement quantum communications and quantum clocks at regimes where relativity
starts to kick in. However, typical setups do not take into account the effects
of relativity on quantum properties. To include and exploit these effects, we
introduce techniques for the application of metrology to quantum field theory.
Quantum field theory properly incorporates quantum theory and relativity, in
particular, at regimes where space-based experiments take place. This framework
allows for high precision estimation of parameters that appear in quantum field
theory including proper times and accelerations. Indeed, the techniques can be
applied to develop a novel generation of relativistic quantum technologies for
gravimeters, clocks and sensors. As an example, we present a high precision
device which in principle improves the state-of-the-art in quantum
accelerometers by exploiting relativistic effects.

Shor's quantum factoring algorithm and a few other efficient quantum
algorithms break many classical crypto-systems. In response, people proposed
post-quantum cryptography based on computational problems that are believed
hard even for quantum computers. However, security of these schemes against
\emph{quantum} attacks is elusive. This is because existing security analysis
(almost) only deals with classical attackers and arguing security in the
presence of quantum adversaries is challenging due to unique quantum features
such as no-cloning.
  This work proposes a general framework to study which classical security
proofs can be restored in the quantum setting. Basically, we split a security
proof into (a sequence of) classical security reductions, and investigate what
security reductions are "quantum-friendly". We characterize sufficient
conditions such that a classical reduction can be "lifted" to the quantum
setting. We then apply our lifting theorems to post-quantum signature schemes.
We are able to show that the classical generic construction of hash-tree based
signatures from one-way functions and and a more efficient variant proposed
in~\cite{BDH11} carry over to the quantum setting. Namely, assuming existence
of (classical) one-way functions that are resistant to efficient quantum
inversion algorithms, there exists a quantum-secure signature scheme. We note
that the scheme in~\cite{BDH11} is a promising (post-quantum) candidate to be
implemented in practice and our result further justifies it. Finally we
demonstrate the generality of our framework by showing that several existing
works (Full-Domain hash in the quantum random-oracle model~\cite{Zha12ibe} and
the simple hybrid arguments framework in~\cite{HSS11}) can be reformulated
under our unified framework.

Practical challenges in simulating quantum systems on classical computers
have been widely recognized in the quantum physics and quantum chemistry
communities over the past century. Although many approximation methods have
been introduced, the complexity of quantum mechanics remains hard to appease.
The advent of quantum computation brings new pathways to navigate this
challenging complexity landscape. By manipulating quantum states of matter and
taking advantage of their unique features such as superposition and
entanglement, quantum computers promise to efficiently deliver accurate results
for many important problems in quantum chemistry such as the electronic
structure of molecules. In the past two decades significant advances have been
made in developing algorithms and physical hardware for quantum computing,
heralding a revolution in simulation of quantum systems. This article is an
overview of the algorithms and results that are relevant for quantum chemistry.
The intended audience is both quantum chemists who seek to learn more about
quantum computing, and quantum computing researchers who would like to explore
applications in quantum chemistry.

Memory effects play a fundamental role in the dynamics of open quantum
systems. There exist two different views on memory for quantum noises. In the
first view, the quantum channel has memory when there exist correlations
between successive uses of the channels on a sequence of quantum systems. These
types of channels are also known as correlated quantum channels. In the second
view, memory effects result from correlations which are created during the
quantum evolution. In this work we will consider the first view and study the
quantum speed limit time for a correlated quantum channel. Quantum speed limit
time is the bound on the minimal time which is needed for a quantum system to
evolve from an initial state to desired states. The quantum evolution is fast
if the quantum speed limit time is short. In this work, we will study the
quantum speed limit time for some correlated unital and correlated non-unital
channels. As an example for unital channels we choose correlated dephasing
colored noise. We also consider the correlated amplitude damping and correlated
squeezed generalized amplitude damping channels as the examples for non-unital
channels. It will be shown that the quantum speed limit time for correlated
pure dephasing colored noise is increased by increasing correlation strength,
while for correlated amplitude damping and correlated squeezed generalized
amplitude damping channels quantum speed limit time is decreased by increasing
correlation strength.

Quantum walks are at the heart of modern quantum technologies. They allow to
deal with quantum transport phenomena and are an advanced tool for constructing
novel quantum algorithms. Quantum walks on graphs are fundamentally different
from classical random walks analogs, in particular, they walk faster than
classical ones on certain graphs, enabling in these cases quantum algorithmic
applications and quantum-enhanced energy transfer. However, little is known
about the possible advantages on arbitrary graphs not having explicit
symmetries. For these graphs one would need to perform simulations of classical
and quantum walk dynamics to check if the speedup occurs, which could take a
long computational time. Here we present a new approach for the solution of the
quantum speedup problem, which is based on a machine learning algorithm that
predicts the quantum advantage by just looking at a graph. The convolutional
neural network, which we designed specifically to learn from graphs, observes
simulated examples and learns complex features of graphs that lead to a quantum
advantage, allowing to identify graphs that exhibit quantum advantage without
performing any quantum walk or random walk simulations. The performance of our
approach is evaluated for line and random graphs, where classification was
always better than random guess even for the most challenging cases. Our
findings pave the way to an automated elaboration of novel large-scale quantum
circuits utilizing quantum walk based algorithms, and to simulating
high-efficiency energy transfer in biophotonics and material science.

It is shown, that the Aharonov-Albert-Vaidman concept of weak values appears
to be a consequence of a more general quantum phenomenon of weak quantum
evolution. Here the concept of weak quantum evolution is introduced and
discussed for the first time. In particular, it is shown on the level of
quantum evolution that there exist restrictions on the applicability of weak
quantum evolution- and, hence, weak values approach. These restrictions connect
the size of given quantum ensemble with the parameters of pre- and
post-selected quantum states. It is shown, that the latter requirement can be
fulfilled for the model system, where the concept of weak values was initially
introduced by Aharonov,Vaidman and Albert. Moreover, a deep connection between
weak quantum evolution and conventional probability of quantum transition
between two non-orthogonal quantum states is established for the first time. It
is found that weak quantum evolution of quantum system between its two
non-orthogonal quantum states is inherently present in the
measurement-determined definition of quantum transition probability between
these two quantum states.

As we begin to reach the limits of classical computing, quantum computing has
emerged as a technology that has captured the imagination of the scientific
world. While for many years, the ability to execute quantum algorithms was only
a theoretical possibility, recent advances in hardware mean that quantum
computing devices now exist that can carry out quantum computation on a limited
scale. Thus it is now a real possibility, and of central importance at this
time, to assess the potential impact of quantum computers on real problems of
interest. One of the earliest and most compelling applications for quantum
computers is Feynman's idea of simulating quantum systems with many degrees of
freedom. Such systems are found across chemistry, physics, and materials
science. The particular way in which quantum computing extends classical
computing means that one cannot expect arbitrary simulations to be sped up by a
quantum computer, thus one must carefully identify areas where quantum
advantage may be achieved. In this review, we briefly describe central problems
in chemistry and materials science, in areas of electronic structure, quantum
statistical mechanics, and quantum dynamics, that are of potential interest for
solution on a quantum computer. We then take a detailed snapshot of current
progress in quantum algorithms for ground-state, dynamics, and thermal state
simulation, and analyze their strengths and weaknesses for future developments.

Conformal truncation is a powerful numerical method for solving generic
strongly-coupled quantum field theories based on purely field-theoretic
technics without introducing lattice regularization. We discuss possible
speedups for performing those computations using quantum devices, with the help
of near-term and future quantum algorithms. We show that this construction is
very similar to quantum simulation problems appearing in quantum chemistry
(which are widely investigated in quantum information science), and the
renormalization group theory provides a field theory interpretation of
conformal truncation simulation. Taking two-dimensional Quantum Chromodynamics
(QCD) as an example, we give various explicit calculations of variational and
digital quantum simulations in the level of theories, classical trials, or
quantum simulators from IBM, including adiabatic state preparation, variational
quantum eigensolver, imaginary time evolution, and quantum Lanczos algorithm.
Our work shows that quantum computation could not only help us understand
fundamental physics in the lattice approximation, but also simulate quantum
field theory methods directly, which are widely used in particle and nuclear
physics, sharpening the statement of the quantum Church-Turing Thesis.

The parameters of a quantum system grow exponentially with the number of
involved quantum particles. Hence, the associated memory requirement goes well
beyond the limit of best classic computers for quantum systems composed of a
few dozen particles leading to huge challenges in their numerical simulation.
This implied that verification, let alone, design of new quantum devices and
experiments, is fundamentally limited to small system size. It is not clear how
the full potential of large quantum systems can be exploited. Here, we present
the concept of quantum computer designed quantum hardware and apply it to the
field of quantum optics. Specifically, we map complex experimental hardware for
high-dimensional, many-body entangled photons into a gate-based quantum
circuit. We show explicitly how digital quantum simulation of Boson Sampling
experiments can be realized. Then we illustrate how to design quantum-optical
setups for complex entangled photon systems, such as high-dimensional
Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger states and their derivatives. Since photonic
hardware is already on the edge of quantum supremacy (the limit beyond which
systems can no longer be calculated classically) and the development of
gate-based quantum computers is rapidly advancing, our approach promises to be
an useful tool for the future of quantum device design.

We investigate quantum phase transitions and quantum coherence in infinite
biquadratic spin-1 and -2 XY chains with rhombic single-ion anisotropy. All
considered coherence measures such as the $l_1$ norm of coherence, the relative
entropy of coherence, and the quantum Jensen-Shannon divergence, and the
quantum mutual information show consistently that singular behaviors occur for
the spin-1 system, which enables to identity quantum phase transitions. For the
spin-2 system, the relative entropy of coherence and the quantum mutual
information properly detect no singular behavior in the whole system parameter
range, while the $l_1$ norm of coherence and the quantum Jensen-Shannon
divergence show a conflicting singular behavior of their first-order
derivatives. Examining local magnetic moments and spin quadrupole moments lead
to the explicit identification of novel orderings of spin quadrupole moments
with zero magnetic moments in the whole parameter space. We find the three
uniaxial spin nematic quadrupole phases for the spin-1 system and the two
biaxial spin nematic phases for the spin-2 system. For the spin-2 system, the
two orthogonal biaxial spin nematic states are connected adiabatically without
an explicit phase transition, which can be called quantum crossover. The
quantum crossover region is estimated by using the quantum fidelity. Whereas
for the spin-1 system, the two discontinuous quantum phase transitions occur
between three distinct uniaxial spin nematic phases. We discuss the quantum
coherence measures and the quantum mutual information in connection with the
quantum phase transitions including the quantum crossover.

Cryptanalysis on standard quantum cryptographic systems generally involves
finding optimal adversarial attack strategies on the underlying protocols. The
core principle of modelling quantum attacks in many cases reduces to the
adversary's ability to clone unknown quantum states which facilitates the
extraction of some meaningful secret information. Explicit optimal attack
strategies typically require high computational resources due to large circuit
depths or, in many cases, are unknown. In this work, we propose variational
quantum cloning (VQC), a quantum machine learning based cryptanalysis algorithm
which allows an adversary to obtain optimal (approximate) cloning strategies
with short depth quantum circuits, trained using hybrid classical-quantum
techniques. The algorithm contains operationally meaningful cost functions with
theoretical guarantees, quantum circuit structure learning and gradient descent
based optimisation. Our approach enables the end-to-end discovery of hardware
efficient quantum circuits to clone specific families of quantum states, which
in turn leads to an improvement in cloning fidelites when implemented on
quantum hardware: the Rigetti Aspen chip. Finally, we connect these results to
quantum cryptographic primitives, in particular quantum coin flipping. We
derive attacks on two protocols as examples, based on quantum cloning and
facilitated by VQC. As a result, our algorithm can improve near term attacks on
these protocols, using approximate quantum cloning as a resource.

Distributed quantum information processing is essential for building quantum
networks and enabling more extensive quantum computations. In this regime,
several spatially separated parties share a multipartite quantum system, and
the most natural set of operations is Local Operations and Classical
Communication (LOCC). As a pivotal part in quantum information theory and
practice, LOCC has led to many vital protocols such as quantum teleportation.
However, designing practical LOCC protocols is challenging due to LOCC's
intractable structure and limitations set by near-term quantum devices. Here we
introduce LOCCNet, a machine learning framework facilitating protocol design
and optimization for distributed quantum information processing tasks. As
applications, we explore various quantum information tasks such as entanglement
distillation, quantum state discrimination, and quantum channel simulation. We
discover protocols with evident improvements, in particular, for entanglement
distillation with quantum states of interest in quantum information. Our
approach opens up new opportunities for exploring entanglement and its
applications with machine learning, which will potentially sharpen our
understanding of the power and limitations of LOCC. An implementation of
LOCCNet is available in Paddle Quantum, a quantum machine learning Python
package based on PaddlePaddle deep learning platform.

Quantum information technologies, covering quantum computing, quantum
communication and quantum sensing, are among the most significant technologies
to emerge in recent decades, offering the promise of paradigm-shifting
computational capacity with significant ethical consequences. On a technical
level, the unique features of quantum information processing have consequences
for the imposition of fairness and ethical constraints on computation. Despite
its significance, little if no structured research has been undertaken into the
ethical implications of such quantum technologies. In this paper, we fill this
gap in the literature by presenting a roadmap for ethical quantum computing
(and quantum information processing more generally) that sets out prospective
research programmes. We summarise the key elements of quantum information
processing (focusing on quantum computation) relevant to ethical analysis and
set-out taxonomies for use by researchers considering the ethics of quantum
technologies. In particular, we demonstrate how the unique features of quantum
information processing gives rise to distinct ethical consequences (including
in the context of machine learning). We situate quantum ethics at the
cross-disciplinary intersection of quantum information science, technology
ethics and moral philosophy to assess the impacts of this newly emerging
technology. We provide specific examples of how the emergence of quantum
technologies gives rise to normative and distributional ethical challenges.
Finally, we set out prospective research directions to help inaugurate the
cross-disciplinary field of the ethics of quantum computing.

The class of problems in causal inference which seeks to isolate causal
correlations solely from observational data even without interventions has come
to the forefront of machine learning, neuroscience and social sciences. As new
large scale quantum systems go online, it opens interesting questions of
whether a quantum framework exists on isolating causal correlations without any
interventions on a quantum system. We put forth a theoretical framework for
merging quantum information science and causal inference by exploiting entropic
principles. At the root of our approach is the proposition that the true causal
direction minimizes the entropy of exogenous variables in a non-local hidden
variable theory. The proposed framework uses a quantum causal structural
equation model to build the connection between two fields: entropic causal
inference and the quantum marginal problem. First, inspired by the definition
of geometric quantum discord, we fill the gap between classical and quantum
conditional density matrices to define quantum causal models. Subsequently,
using a greedy approach, we develop a scalable algorithm for quantum entropic
causal inference unifying classical and quantum causality in a principled way.
We apply our proposed algorithm to an experimentally relevant scenario of
identifying the subsystem impacted by noise starting from an entangled state.
This successful inference on a synthetic quantum dataset can have practical
applications in identifying originators of malicious activity on future
multi-node quantum networks as well as quantum error correction. As quantum
datasets and systems grow in complexity, our framework can play a foundational
role in bringing observational causal inference from the classical to the
quantum domain.

With a vast domain of applications and now having quantum computing hardware
available for commercial use, an education challenge arises in getting people
of various background to become quantum literate. Quantum Odyssey is a new
piece of computer software that promises to be a medium where people can learn
quantum computing without any previous requirements. It aims to achieve this
through visual cues and puzzle play, without requiring the user to possess a
background in computer coding or even linear algebra, which are traditionally a
must to work on quantum algorithms. In this paper we report our findings on an
UKRI Citizen Science grant that involves using Quantum Odyssey to teach how to
construct quantum computing algorithms. Sessions involved 30 minutes of play,
with 10 groups of 5 students, ranging between 11 to 18 years old, in two
schools in the UK. Results show the Quantum Odyssey visual methods are
efficient in portraying counterintuitive quantum computational logic in a
visual and interactive form. This enabled untrained participants to quickly
grasp difficult concepts in an intuitive way and solve problems that are
traditionally given today in Masters level courses in a mathematical form. The
results also show an increased interest in quantum physics after play, a higher
openness and curiosity to learn the mathematics behind computing on quantum
systems. Participants developed a visual, rather than mathematical intuition,
that enabled them to understand and correctly answer entry level technical
quantum information science.

Barcoding photons can provide a host of functionalities that could benefit
future quantum communication systems and networks beyond today's imagination.
As a significant application of barcoding photons, we introduce code division
multiple-access (CDMA) communication systems for various applications. In this
context, we introduce and discuss the fundamental principles of a novel quantum
CDMA (QCDMA) technique based on spectrally encoding and decoding of
continuous-mode quantum light pulses. In particular, we present the
mathematical models of various QCDMA modules that are fundamental in describing
an ideal and typical QCDMA system, such as quantum signal sources, quantum
spectral encoding phase operators, M$\times$M quantum broadcasting
star-coupler, quantum spectral phase decoding operators, and the quantum
receivers. In describing a QCDMA system, this paper considers a unified
approach where the input continuous-mode quantum light pulses can take on any
form of pure states such as Glauber states and quantum number states. For input
number states, one can observe features like entanglement and quantum
interference. More interestingly, due to Heisenberg's uncertainty principle,
the quantum signals sent by photon number states obtain complete phase
uncertainty at the time of measurement. Therefore, at the receiver output, the
multiaccess inter-signal interference vanishes. Due to Heisenberg's uncertainty
principle, the received signal intensity at the photodetector's output changes
from a coherent detection scheme for input Glauber states to an incoherent
detection scheme for input number states. Our mathematical model is valuable in
the signal design and data modulations of point-to-point quantum
communications, quantum pulse shaping, and quantum radar signals and systems
where the inputs are continuous mode quantum signals.

Quantum computing uses quantum resources provided by the underlying quantum
nature of matter to enhance classical computation. However, the current Noisy
Intermediate-Scale Quantum (NISQ) era in quantum computing is characterized by
the use of quantum processors comprising from a few tens to, at most, a few
hundreds of physical qubits without implementing quantum error correction
techniques. This limits the scalability in the implementation of quantum
algorithms. Digital-analog quantum computing (DAQC) has been proposed as a more
resilient alternative quantum computing paradigm to outperform digital quantum
computation within the NISQ era framework. It arises from adding the
flexibility provided by fast single-qubit gates to the robustness of analog
quantum simulations. Here, we perform a careful comparison between the digital
and digital-analog paradigms under the presence of noise sources. The
comparison is illustrated by comparing the performance of the quantum Fourier
transform and quantum phase estimation algorithms under a wide range of single-
and two-qubit noise sources. Indeed, we obtain that when the different noise
channels usually present in superconducting quantum processors are considered,
the fidelity of these algorithms for the digital-analog paradigm outperforms
the one obtained for the digital approach. Additionally, this difference grows
when the size of the processor scales up, making DAQC a sensible alternative
paradigm in the NISQ era. Finally, we show how to adapt the DAQC paradigm to
quantum error mitigation techniques for canceling different noise sources,
including the bang error.

With the constant increase of the number of quantum bits (qubits) in the
actual quantum computers, implementing and accelerating the prevalent deep
learning on quantum computers are becoming possible. Along with this trend,
there emerge quantum neural architectures based on different designs of quantum
neurons. A fundamental question in quantum deep learning arises: what is the
best quantum neural architecture? Inspired by the design of neural
architectures for classical computing which typically employs multiple types of
neurons, this paper makes the very first attempt to mix quantum neuron designs
to build quantum neural architectures. We observe that the existing quantum
neuron designs may be quite different but complementary, such as neurons from
variational quantum circuits (VQC) and Quantumflow. More specifically, VQC can
apply real-valued weights but suffer from being extended to multiple layers,
while QuantumFlow can build a multi-layer network efficiently, but is limited
to use binary weights. To take their respective advantages, we propose to mix
them together and figure out a way to connect them seamlessly without
additional costly measurement. We further investigate the design principles to
mix quantum neurons, which can provide guidance for quantum neural architecture
exploration in the future. Experimental results demonstrate that the identified
quantum neural architectures with mixed quantum neurons can achieve 90.62% of
accuracy on the MNIST dataset, compared with 52.77% and 69.92% on the VQC and
QuantumFlow, respectively.

We propose a quantum-classical hybrid algorithm to encode a given arbitrarily
quantum state $\vert \Psi \rangle$ onto an optimal quantum circuit
$\hat{\mathcal{C}}$ with a finite number of single- and two-qubit quantum
gates. The proposed algorithm employs as an objective function the absolute
value of fidelity $F = \langle 0 \vert \hat{\mathcal{C}}^{\dagger} \vert \Psi
\rangle$, which is maximized iteratively to construct an optimal quantum
circuit $\hat{\mathcal{C}}$ with controlled accuracy. The key ingredient of the
algorithm is the sequential determination of a set of optimal two-qubit unitary
operators one by one via the singular value decomposition of the fidelity
tensor. Once the optimal unitary operators are determined, including the
location of qubits on which each unitary operator acts, elementary quantum
gates are assigned algebraically. With noiseless numerical simulations, we
demonstrate the algorithm to encode a ground state of quantum many-body
systems, including the spin-1/2 antiferromagnetic Heisenberg model and the
spin-1/2 XY model. The results are also compared with the quantum circuit
encoding of the same quantum state onto a quantum circuit in a given circuit
structure. Moreover, we demonstrate that the algorithm can also be applied to
construct an optimal quantum circuit for classical data such as a classical
image that is represented as a quantum state by the amplitude encoding.
Finally, we also experimentally demonstrate that a quantum circuit generated by
the AQCE algorithm can indeed represent the original quantum state reasonably
on a noisy real quantum device.

Quantum computers herald the arrival of a new era in which previously
intractable computational problems will be solved efficiently. However, quantum
technology is held down by decoherence, a phenomenon that is omnipresent in the
quantum paradigm and that renders quantum information useless when left
unchecked. The science of quantum error correction, a discipline that seeks to
combine and protect quantum information from the effects of decoherence using
structures known as codes, has arisen to meet this challenge. Stabilizer codes,
a particular subclass of quantum codes, have enabled fast progress in the field
of quantum error correction by allowing parallels to be drawn with the widely
studied field of classical error correction. This has resulted in the
construction of the quantum counterparts of well-known capacity-approaching
classical codes like sparse codes and quantum turbo codes. However, quantum
codes obtained in this manner do not entirely evoke the stupendous error
correcting abilities of their classical counterparts. This occurs because
classical strategies ignore important differences between the quantum and
classical paradigms, an issue that needs to be addressed if quantum error
correction is to succeed in its battle with decoherence. In this dissertation
we study a phenomenon exclusive to the quantum paradigm, known as degeneracy,
and its effects on the performance of sparse quantum codes. Furthermore, we
also analyze and present methods to improve the performance of a specific
family of sparse quantum codes in various different scenarios.

Virtual Lab by Quantum Flytrap explores novel ways to represent quantum
phenomena interactively and intuitively. It is a no-code online laboratory with
a real-time simulation of an optical table, supporting up to three entangled
photons. Users can place typical optical elements (such as beam splitters,
polarizers, Faraday rotators, and detectors) with a drag-and-drop graphical
interface. Virtual Lab operates in two modes. The sandbox mode allows users to
compose arbitrary setups. Quantum Game serves as an introduction to Virtual Lab
features, approachable for users with no prior exposure to quantum mechanics.
  We introduce novel ways of visualizing entangled quantum states and
displaying entanglement measures, including interactive visualizations of the
ket notation and a heatmap-like visualization of quantum operators. These
quantum visualizations can be applied to any discrete quantum system, including
quantum circuits with qubits and spin chains. These tools are available as
open-source TypeScript packages - Quantum Tensor and BraKetVue. Virtual Lab
makes it possible to explore the nature of quantum physics (state evolution,
entanglement, and measurement), to simulate quantum computing (e.g. the
Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm), to use quantum cryptography (e.g. the Ekert
protocol), to explore counterintuitive quantum phenomena (e.g. quantum
teleportation & the Bell inequality violation), and to recreate historical
experiments (e.g. the Michelson-Morley interferometer).
  Virtual Lab is available at: https://lab.quantumflytrap.com.

Recent breakthroughs in quantum hardware are creating opportunities for its
use in many applications. However, quantum software engineering is still in its
infancy with many challenges, especially dealing with the diversity of quantum
programming languages and hardware platforms. To alleviate these challenges, we
propose QFaaS, a novel Quantum Function-as-a-Service framework, which leverages
the advantages of the serverless model and the state-of-the-art software
engineering approaches to advance practical quantum computing. Our framework
provides essential components of a quantum serverless platform to simplify the
software development and adapt to the quantum cloud computing paradigm, such as
combining hybrid quantum-classical computation, containerizing functions, and
integrating DevOps features. We design QFaaS as a unified quantum computing
framework by supporting well-known quantum languages and software development
kits (Qiskit, Q#, Cirq, and Braket), executing the quantum tasks on multiple
simulators and quantum cloud providers (IBM Quantum and Amazon Braket). This
paper proposes architectural design, principal components, the life cycle of
hybrid quantum-classical function, operation workflow, and implementation of
QFaaS. We present two practical use cases and perform the evaluations on
quantum computers and simulators to demonstrate our framework's ability to ease
the burden on traditional engineers to expedite the ongoing quantum software
transition.

The fragile nature of quantum information makes it practically impossible to
completely isolate a quantum state from noise under quantum channel
transmissions. Quantum networks are complex systems formed by the
interconnection of quantum processing devices through quantum channels. In this
context, characterizing how channels introduce noise in transmitted quantum
states is of paramount importance. Precise descriptions of the error
distributions introduced by non-unitary quantum channels can inform quantum
error correction protocols to tailor operations for the particular error model.
In addition, characterizing such errors by monitoring the network with
end-to-end measurements enables end-nodes to infer the status of network links.
In this work, we address the end-to-end characterization of quantum channels in
a quantum network by introducing the problem of Quantum Network Tomography. The
solution for this problem is an estimator for the probabilities that define a
Kraus decomposition for all quantum channels in the network, using measurements
performed exclusively in the end-nodes. We study this problem in detail for the
case of arbitrary star quantum networks with quantum channels described by a
single Pauli operator, like bit-flip quantum channels. We provide solutions for
such networks with polynomial sample complexity. Our solutions provide evidence
that pre-shared entanglement brings advantages for estimation in terms of the
identifiability of parameters.

Interferometers are crucial for precision measurements, including
gravitational waves, laser ranging, radar, and imaging. The phase sensitivity,
the core parameter, can be quantum-enhanced to break the standard quantum limit
(SQL) using quantum states. However, quantum states are highly fragile and
quickly degrade with losses. We design and demonstrate a quantum interferometer
utilizing a beam splitter with a variable splitting ratio to protect the
quantum resource against environmental impacts. The optimal phase sensitivity
can reach the quantum Cram\'{e}r-Rao bound of the system. This quantum
interferometer can greatly reduce the quantum source requirements in quantum
measurements. In theory, with a 66.6% loss rate, the sensitivity can break the
SQL using only a 6.0 dB squeezed quantum resource with the current
interferometer rather than a 24 dB squeezed quantum resource with a
conventional squeezing-vacuum-injected Mach-Zehnder interferometer. In
experiments, when using a 2.0 dB squeezed vacuum state, the sensitivity
enhancement remains at ~1.6 dB via optimizing the first splitting ratio when
the loss rate changes from 0% to 90%, indicating that the quantum resource is
excellently protected with the existence of losses in practical applications.
This strategy could open a way to retain quantum advantages for quantum
information processing and quantum precision measurement in lossy environments.

With the birth of Noisy Intermediate Scale Quantum (NISQ) devices and the
verification of "quantum supremacy" in random number sampling and boson
sampling, more and more fields hope to use quantum computers to solve specific
problems, such as aerodynamic design, route allocation, financial option
prediction, quantum chemical simulation to find new materials, and the
challenge of quantum cryptography to automotive industry security. However,
these fields still need to constantly explore quantum algorithms that adapt to
the current NISQ machine, so a quantum programming framework that can face
multi-scenarios and application needs is required. Therefore, this paper
proposes QPanda, an application scenario-oriented quantum programming framework
with high-performance simulation. Such as designing quantum chemical simulation
algorithms based on it to explore new materials, building a quantum machine
learning framework to serve finance, etc. This framework implements
high-performance simulation of quantum circuits, a configuration of the fusion
processing backend of quantum computers and supercomputers, and compilation and
optimization methods of quantum programs for NISQ machines. Finally, the
experiment shows that quantum jobs can be executed with high fidelity on the
quantum processor using quantum circuit compile and optimized interface and
have better simulation performance.

Quantum Hamiltonian simulation, which simulates the evolution of quantum
systems and probes quantum phenomena, is one of the most promising applications
of quantum computing. Recent experimental results suggest that
Hamiltonian-oriented analog quantum simulation would be advantageous over
circuit-oriented digital quantum simulation in the Noisy Intermediate-Scale
Quantum (NISQ) machine era. However, programming analog quantum simulators is
much more challenging due to the lack of a unified interface between hardware
and software. In this paper, we design and implement SimuQ, the first framework
for quantum Hamiltonian simulation that supports Hamiltonian programming and
pulse-level compilation to heterogeneous analog quantum simulators.
Specifically, in SimuQ, front-end users specify the target quantum system with
Hamiltonian Modeling Language, and the Hamiltonian-level programmability of
analog quantum simulators is specified through a new abstraction called the
abstract analog instruction set (AAIS) and programmed in AAIS Specification
Language by hardware providers. Through a solver-based compilation, SimuQ
generates executable pulse schedules for real devices to simulate the evolution
of desired quantum systems, which is demonstrated on superconducting (IBM),
neutral-atom (QuEra), and trapped-ion (IonQ) quantum devices. Moreover, we
demonstrate the advantages of exposing the Hamiltonian-level programmability of
devices with native operations or interaction-based gates and establish a small
benchmark of quantum simulation to evaluate SimuQ's compiler with the above
analog quantum simulators.

Quantum computers (QCs) aim to disrupt the status-quo of computing --
replacing traditional systems and platforms that are driven by digital circuits
and modular software -- with hardware and software that operates on the
principle of quantum mechanics. QCs that rely on quantum mechanics can exploit
quantum circuits (i.e., quantum bits for manipulating quantum gates) to achieve
"quantum computational supremacy" over traditional, i.e., digital computing
systems. Currently, the issues that impede mass-scale adoption of quantum
systems are rooted in the fact that building, maintaining, and/or programming
QCs is a complex and radically distinct engineering paradigm when compared to
challenges of classical computing and software engineering. Quantum service
orientation is seen as a solution that synergises the research on service
computing and quantum software engineering (QSE) to allow developers and users
to build and utilise quantum software services based on pay-per-shot utility
computing model. The pay-per-shot model represents a single execution of
instruction on quantum processing unit and it allows vendors (e.g., Amazon
Braket) to offer their QC platforms, simulators, software services etc. to
enterprises and individuals who do not need to own or maintain quantum systems.
This research contributes by 1) developing a reference architecture for
enabling quantum computing as a service, 2) implementing microservices with the
quantum-classic split pattern as an architectural use-case, and 3) evaluating
the reference architecture based on feedback by 22 practitioners. In the QSE
context, the research focuses on unifying architectural methods and
service-orientation patterns to promote reuse knowledge and best practices to
tackle emerging and futuristic challenges of architecting and implementing
Quantum Computing as a Service (QCaaS).

Classical game theory is a powerful tool focusing on optimized resource
distribution, allocation and sharing in classical wired and wireless networks.
As quantum networks are emerging as a means of providing true connectivity
between quantum computers, it is imperative and crucial to exploit game theory
for addressing challenges like entanglement distribution and access, routing,
topology extraction and inference for quantum networks. Quantum networks
provide the promising opportunity of employing quantum games owing to their
inherent capability of generating and sharing quantum states. Besides, quantum
games offer enhanced payoffs and winning probabilities, new strategies and
equilibria, which are unimaginable in classical games. Employing quantum game
theory to solve fundamental challenges in quantum networks opens a new
fundamental research direction necessitating inter-disciplinary efforts. In
this article, we introduce a novel game-theoretical framework for exploiting
quantum strategies to solve, as archetypal example, one of the key
functionality of a quantum network, namely, the entanglement distribution. We
compare the quantum strategies with classical ones by showing the quantum
advantages in terms of link fidelity improvement and latency decrease in
communication. In future, we will generalize our game framework to optimize
entanglement distribution and access over any quantum network topology. We will
also explore how quantum games can be leveraged to address other challenges
like routing, optimization of quantum operations and topology design.

In this paper, we provide an overview of the recent work in the quantum
finance realm from various perspectives. The applications in consideration are
Portfolio Optimization, Fraud Detection, and Monte Carlo methods for derivative
pricing and risk calculation. Furthermore, we give a comprehensive overview of
the applications of quantum computing in the field of blockchain technology
which is a main concept in fintech. In that sense, we first introduce the
general overview of blockchain with its main cryptographic primitives such as
digital signature algorithms, hash functions, and random number generators as
well as the security vulnerabilities of blockchain technologies after the merge
of quantum computers considering Shor's quantum factoring and Grover's quantum
search algorithms. We then discuss the privacy preserving quantum-resistant
blockchain systems via threshold signatures, ring signatures, and
zero-knowledge proof systems i.e. ZK-SNARKs in quantum resistant blockchains.
After emphasizing the difference between the quantum-resistant blockchain and
quantum-safe blockchain we mention the security countermeasures to take against
the possible quantumized attacks aiming these systems. We finalize our
discussion with quantum blockchain, efficient quantum mining and necessary
infrastructures for constructing such systems based on quantum computing. This
review has the intention to be a bridge to fill the gap between quantum
computing and one of its most prominent application realms: Finance. We provide
the state-of-the-art results in the intersection of finance and quantum
technology for both industrial practitioners and academicians.

Quantum machine learning is a rapidly growing field at the intersection of
quantum computing and machine learning. In this work, we examine our quantum
machine learning models, which are based on quantum support vector
classification (QSVC) and quantum support vector regression (QSVR). We
investigate these models using a quantum-circuit simulator, both with and
without noise, as well as the IonQ Harmony quantum processor. For the QSVC
tasks, we use a dataset containing fraudulent credit card transactions and
image datasets (the MNIST and the Fashion-MNIST datasets); for the QSVR tasks,
we use a financial dataset and a materials dataset. For the classification
tasks, the performance of our QSVC models using 4 qubits of the trapped-ion
quantum computer was comparable to that obtained from noiseless quantum-circuit
simulations. The result is consistent with the analysis of our device-noise
simulations with varying qubit-gate error rates. For the regression tasks,
applying a low-rank approximation to the noisy quantum kernel, in combination
with hyperparameter tuning in {\epsilon}-SVR, improved the performance of the
QSVR models on the near-term quantum device. The alignment, as measured by the
Frobenius inner product between the noiseless and noisy quantum kernels, can
serve as an indicator of the relative prediction performance on noisy quantum
devices in comparison with their ideal counterparts. Our results suggest that
the quantum kernel, as described by our shallow quantum circuit, can be
effectively used for both QSVC and QSVR tasks, indicating its resistance to
noise and its adaptability to various datasets.

Quantum computing has shown considerable promise for compute-intensive tasks
in recent years. For instance, classification tasks based on quantum neural
networks (QNN) have garnered significant interest from researchers and have
been evaluated in various scenarios. However, the majority of quantum
classifiers are currently limited to binary classification tasks due to either
constrained quantum computing resources or the need for intensive classical
post-processing. In this paper, we propose an efficient quantum
multi-classifier called MORE, which stands for measurement and correlation
based variational quantum multi-classifier. MORE adopts the same variational
ansatz as binary classifiers while performing multi-classification by fully
utilizing the quantum information of a single readout qubit. To extract the
complete information from the readout qubit, we select three observables that
form the basis of a two-dimensional Hilbert space. We then use the quantum
state tomography technique to reconstruct the readout state from the
measurement results. Afterward, we explore the correlation between classes to
determine the quantum labels for classes using the variational quantum
clustering approach. Next, quantum label-based supervised learning is performed
to identify the mapping between the input data and their corresponding quantum
labels. Finally, the predicted label is determined by its closest quantum label
when using the classifier. We implement this approach using the Qiskit Python
library and evaluate it through extensive experiments on both noise-free and
noisy quantum systems. Our evaluation results demonstrate that MORE, despite
using a simple ansatz and limited quantum resources, achieves advanced
performance.

The potential synergy between quantum communications and future wireless
communication systems is explored. By proposing a quantum-native or
quantum-by-design philosophy, the survey examines technologies such as
quantum-domain (QD) multi-input multi-output (MIMO), QD non-orthogonal multiple
access (NOMA), quantum secure direct communication (QSDC), QD resource
allocation, QD routing, and QD artificial intelligence (AI). The recent
research advances in these areas are summarized. Given the behavior of photonic
and particle-like Terahertz (THz) systems, a comprehensive system-oriented
perspective is adopted to assess the feasibility of using quantum
communications in future systems. This survey also reviews quantum optimization
algorithms and quantum neural networks to explore the potential integration of
quantum communication and quantum computing in future systems. Additionally,
the current status of quantum sensing, quantum radar, and quantum timing is
briefly reviewed in support of future applications. The associated research
gaps and future directions are identified, including extending the entanglement
coherence time, developing THz quantum communications devices, addressing
challenges in channel estimation and tracking, and establishing the theoretical
bounds and performance trade-offs of quantum communication, computing, and
sensing. This survey offers a unique perspective on the potential for quantum
communications to revolutionize future systems and pave the way for even more
advanced technologies.

Characterizing quantum dynamics is a cornerstone pursuit across quantum
physics, quantum information science, and quantum computation. The precision of
quantum gates in manipulating input basis states and their intricate
superpositions is paramount. In this study, we conduct a thorough analysis of
the SQSCZ gate, a universal two-qubit entangling gate, using real quantum
hardware. This gate is a fusion of the square root of SWAP ($\sqrt{SWAP}$) and
the square root of controlled-Z ($\sqrt{CZ}$) gates, serves as a foundational
element for constructing universal gates, including the controlled-NOT gate. we
begin by explaining the theory behind quantum process tomography (QPT),
exploring the \textit{Choi-Jamiolkowski} isomorphism or the Choi matrix
representation of the quantum process, along with a QPT algorithm utilizing
Choi representation. Subsequently, we provide detailed insights into the
experimental realization of the SQSCZ gate using a transmon-based
superconducting qubit quantum computer. To comprehensively assess the gate's
performance on a noisy intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ) computer, we conduct
QPT experiments across diverse environments, employing both IBM Quantum's
simulators and IBM Quantum's real quantum computer. Leveraging the Choi matrix
in our QPT experiments allows for a comprehensive characterization of our
quantum operations. Our analysis unveils commendable fidelities and noise
properties of the SQSCZ gate, with process fidelities reaching $97.27098\%$ and
$88.99383\%$, respectively. These findings hold promising implications for
advancing both theoretical understanding and practical applications in the
realm of quantum computation.

The major advances in quantum computing over the last few decades have
sparked great interest in applying it to solve the most challenging
computational problems in a wide variety of areas. One of the most pronounced
domains here are optimization problems and a number of algorithmic approaches
have been proposed for their solution. For the current noisy intermediate-scale
quantum (NISQ) computers the quantum approximate optimization algorithm (QAOA),
the variational quantum eigensolver (VQE), and quantum annealing (QA) are the
central algorithms for this problem class. The two former can be executed on
digital gate-model quantum computers, whereas the latter requires a quantum
annealer. Across all hardware architectures and manufactures, the quantum
computers available today share the property of being too error-prone to
reliably execute involved quantum circuits as they typically arise from quantum
optimization algorithms. In order to characterize the limits of existing
quantum computers, many component and system level benchmarks have been
proposed. However, owing to the complex nature of the errors in quantum systems
these benchmark fail to provide predictive power beyond simple quantum circuits
and small examples. Application oriented benchmarks have been proposed to
remedy this problem, but both, results from real quantum systems as well as use
cases beyond constructed academic examples, remain very rare. This paper
addresses precisely this gap by considering two industrial relevant use cases:
one in the realm of optimizing charging schedules for electric vehicles, the
other concerned with the optimization of truck routes. Our central contribution
are systematic series of examples derived from these uses cases that we execute
on different processors of the gate-based quantum computers of IBM as well as
on the quantum annealer of D-Wave.

These lecture notes attempt to explain the main ideas of the theory of the
quantum Hall effect. The emphasis is on the localization and interaction
physics in the extreme quantum limit which gives rise to the quantum Hall
effect. The interaction physics in the extreme quantum limit which is
responsible for the fractional quantum Hall effect is discussed at length and
from an elementary point of view.

Recent development in quantum computation and quantum information theory
allows to extend the scope of game theory for the quantum world. The paper
presents the history and basic ideas of quantum game theory. Description of
Giffen paradoxes in this new formalism is discussed.

The physics of quantum gravity is discussed within the framework of
topological quantum field theory. Some of the principles are illustrated with
examples taken from theories in which space-time is three dimensional.

The space of the solutions of Dirac's quantum constraints cannot be
constructed factoring the quantum state space by the ``simple'' gauge
transformations generated by the constraints. However, we show here that it can
be constructed by factoring the state space by suitably defined ``complete''
gauge transformations. These are generated by the action of the quantum
constraints on individual components of the quantum state.

This paper is a sequel to the series of papers [gr-qc/9409010, gr-qc/9505034,
gr-qc/9603022, gr-qc/9609035, gr-qc/9609046, gr-qc/9704033, gr-qc/9704038,
gr-qc/9708014, gr-qc/9802016, gr-qc/9802022]. We define a quantum measurement
as a sequence of binary quantum jumps caused by a macroscopic apparatus. A
dynamical theory of measurement is developed, the role of gravity and cosmology
being emphasized.

In this paper we shall address this problem: Is quantum gravity constraints
algebra closed and what are the quantum Einstein equations. We shall
investigate this problem in the de-Broglie--Bohm quantum theory framework. It
is shown that the constraint algebra is weakly closed and the quantum
Einstein's equations are derived.

A brief synopsis of recent conceptions and results, the current status and
future outlook of our research program of applying sheaf and topos-theoretic
ideas to quantum gravity and quantum logic is presented.

The singularity theorems of classical general relativity are briefly
reviewed. The extent to which their conclusions might still apply when quantum
theory is taken into account is discussed. There are two distinct quantum
loopholes: quantum violation of the classical energy conditions, and the
presence of quantum fluctuations of the spacetime geometry. The possible
significance of each is discussed.

We shall in the framework of Bohmian quantum gravity show that it is possible
to find a {\it pure} quantum state which leads to the static Einstein universe
whose classical counterpart is flat space--time. We obtain the solution not
only in the long--wavelength approximation but also exactly.

Various aspects of recent works on affine quantum group symmetry of
integrable 2d quantum field theory are reviewed and further clarified. A
geometrical meaning is given to the quantum double, and other properties of
quantum groups. Multiplicative presentations of the Yangian double are
analyzed.

Quantum de Rham complexes on the quantum plane and the quantum group itself
are constructed for the Zakrewski deformation of $ Fun ( SL(2)) $. As a
by-product a new deformation of the two dimensional Heisenberg algeb ra is
constructed which can be used to construct models of h-deformed quantum
mechanics.

Quantum field planes furnish a noncommutative differential algebra $\Omega$
which substitutes for the commutative algebra of functions and forms on a
contractible manifold. The data required in their construction come from a
quantum field theory. The basic idea is to replace the ground field ${\bf C}$
of quantum planes by the noncommutative algebra ${\cal A}$ of observables of
the quantum field theory.

We construct a quantum frame bundle of the quantum plane $C^2_p$ by requiring
that a $GL_{q,p}(2)$-covariant differential calculus on $C^2_p$ be isomorphic
as a bimodule to the space of sections of the associated quantum cotangent
bundle. We also construct the section space of the associated quantum tangent
bundle, and show that it is naturally dual to the differential calculus.

Generalizing our earlier work, we introduce the homogeneous quantum
$Z$-algebras for all quantum affine algebras $\alg$ of type one. With the new
algebras we unite previously scattered realizations of quantum affine algebras
in various cases. As a result we find a realization of $U_q(F_4^{(1)})$.

(2+2)-dimensional quantum mechanical q-phase space which is the semi-direct
product of the quantum plane E_q(2)/U(1) and its dual algebra e_q(2)/u(1) is
constructed. Commutation and the resulting uncertainty relations are studied.
``Quantum mechanical q-Hamiltonian'' of the motion over the quantum plane is
derived and the solution of the Schroedinger equation for the q-semiclassical
motion governed by the expectation value of that Hamiltonian is solved.

A study of symplectic forms associated with two dimensional quantum planes
and the quantum sphere in a three dimensional orthogonal quantum plane is
provided. The associated Hamiltonian vector fields and Poissonian algebraic
relations are made explicit.

We propose a construction of quantum hypergroups using conditional
expectations on compact quantum groups. Using this construction, we describe
several series of non-trivial finite-dimensional quantum hypergroups via
conditional expectations of Delsart type on non-trivial Kac algebras obtained
by twisting of the finite groups.

A reconstruction theorem for genus 0 gravitational quantum cohomology and
quantum K-theory is proved. A new linear equivalence in the Picard group of the
moduli space of genus 0 stable maps relating the pull-backs of line bundles
from the target via different markings is used for the reconstruction result.
Examples of calculations in quantum cohomology and quantum K-theory are given.

In this work, the Z$_3$-graded differential geometry of the quantum plane is
constructed. The corresponding quantum Lie algebra and its Hopf algebra
structure are obtained. The dual algebra, i.e. universal enveloping algebra of
the quantum plane is explicitly constructed and an isomorphism between the
quantum Lie algebra and the dual algebra is given.

This is a short, self-contained expository survey, focused on algebraic and
analytic aspects of quantum groups. Topics covered include the definition of
``quantum group,'' the Yang-Baxter equation, quantized universal enveloping
algebras, representations of braid groups, the KZ equations and the
Kohno-Drinfeld theorem, and finally compact quantum groups and the analogue of
Haar measure for compact quantum groups.

We develop a method of reducing the size of quantum minors in the algebra of
n x n quantum matrices. The method is used to show that quantum determinantal
factor rings of n x n quantum matrices over the complex numbers are maximal
orders, when the parameter q is transcendental over the rational numbers.

The traces of the quantum powers of a generic quantum matrix pairwise
commute. This was conjectured by Kaoru Ikeda, in connection with certain
Hamiltonian systems. The proof involves Newton's formulae for quantum matrices,
relating traces of quantum powers with sums of principal minors.

We calculate the first Hochschild cohomology group of quantum matrices, the
quantum general linear group and the quantum special linear group in the
generic case when the deformation parameter is not a root of unity. As a
corollary, we obtain information about twisted Hochschild homology of these
algebras.

Some very elementary ideas about quantum groups and quantum algebras are
introduced and a few examples of their physical applications are mentioned.

Non-locality or entanglement is an experimentally well established property
of quantum mechanics. Here we study the role of quantum entanglement for higher
symmetry group like $ SU(3_c) $, the gauge group of quantum chromodynamics
(QCD). We show that the hitherto unexplained property of confinement in QCD
arises as a fundamental feature of quantum entanglement in $ SU(3_c) $.

We briefly describe the construction of a consistent $q$-deformation of the
quantum mechanical isotropic harmonic oscillator on ordinary $\rn^N$ space.

An algebraic formulation of Riemannian geometry on quantum spaces is
presented, where Riemannian metric, distance, Laplacian, connection, and
curvature have their counterparts. This description is also extended to complex
manifolds. Examples include the quantum sphere, the complex quantum projective
spaces and the two-sheeted space.

A noncommutative-geometric formalism of framed principal bundles is sketched,
in a special case of quantum bundles (over quantum spaces) possessing classical
structure groups. Quantum counterparts of torsion operators and Levi-Civita
type connections are analyzed. A construction of a natural differential
calculus on framed bundles is described. Illustrative examples are presented.

Coquasitriangular universal ${\cal R}$ matrices on quantum Lorentz and
quantum Poincar\'e groups are classified. The results extend (under certain
assumptions) to inhomogeneous quantum groups of [10]. Enveloping algebras on
those objects are described.

The nonsemisimple quantum Cayley-Klein groups $ Fun(SU_{q}(2;\bf j}) $ are
realized as Hopf algebra of the noncommutative functions with the dual (or
Study) variables. The {\it dual} quantum algebras $ su_q(2;{\bf j}) $ are
constructed and their isomorphisms with the corresponding quantum orthogonal
algebras $ so_q(3;{\bf j}) $ are established. The possible couplings of the
Cayley-Klein and Hopf structures are considered.

We show that the affine quantum group $U_q(\hat{sl_2})$ is isomorphic to a
bicrossproduct central extension $C Z{}_\chi\cross U_q(Lsl_2)$ of the quantum
loop group $U_q(Lsl_2)$ by a quantum cocycle $\chi$, which we construct. We
prove the same result for $U_q(\hat{g})$ in R-matrix form.

We give a general integration prescription for finite dimensional braided
Hopf algebras, deriving the N-dimensional quantum superplane integral as an
example. The transformation properties of the integral on the quantum plane are
found. We also discuss integration on quantum group modules that lack a Hopf
structure.

We clarify some aspects of quantum group gauge theory and its recent
generalisations (by T. Brzezinski and the author) to braided group gauge theory
and coalgebra gauge theory. We outline the diagrammatic version of the braided
case. We study the bosonisation of any braided group provides as a trivial
principal bundle in three ways.

Definition of Dirac operators on the quantum group $SU_{q}(2)$ and the
quantum sphere $S^{2}_{q \mu}$ are discussed. In both cases similar
$SU_{q}(2)$-invariant form is obtained. It is connected with corresponding
Laplace operators.

A differential calculus is set up on a deformation of the oscillator algebra.
It is uniquely determined by the requirement of invariance under a
seven-dimensional quantum group. The quantum space and its associated
differential calculus are also shown to be invariant under a nine generator
quantum group containing the previous one.

The problem of how to obtain quasi-classical states for quantum groups is
examined. A measure of quantum indeterminacy is proposed, which involves
expectation values of some natural quantum group operators. It is shown that
within any finite dimensional irreducible representation, the highest weight
vector and those unitarily related to it are the quasi-classical states.

Two types of Poisson pencils connected to classical R-matrices and their
quantum counterparts are considered. A representation theory of the quantum
algebras related to some symmetric orbits in $sl(n)^*$ is constructed. A
twisted version of quantum mechanics is discussed.

The q-monopole bundle introduced previously is extended to a general
construction for quantum group bundles with non-universal differential calculi.
We show that the theory applies to several other classes of bundles as well,
including bicrossproduct quantum groups, the quantum double and combinatorial
bundles associated to covers of compact manifolds.

We review the construction by G. Felder and the author of the realization of
the elliptic quantum groups of sl(2)-type by quantum currents.

We show how procedures which can correct phase and amplitude errors can be
directly applied to correct errors due to quantum entanglement. We specify
general criteria for quantum error correction, introduce quantum versions of
the Hamming and the Gilbert-Varshamov bounds and comment on the practical
implementation of quantum codes.

This paper investigates properties of noisy quantum information channels. We
define a new quantity called {\em coherent information} which measures the
amount of quantum information conveyed in the noisy channel. This quantity can
never be increased by quantum information processing, and it yields a simple
necessary and sufficient condition for the existence of perfect quantum error
correction.

It is shown that q-deformed quantum mechanics (systems with q-deformed
Heisenberg commutation relations) can be interpreted as an ordinary quantum
mechanics on Kaehler manifolds, or as a quantum theory with second (or first)-
class constraints.

We account for the origin of the laws of quantum probabilities in the de
Broglie-Bohm (pilot wave) formulation of quantum theory by considering the
property of ergodicity likely to characterise the dynamics of microscopic
quantum systems.

Quantum error-correction routines are developed for continuous quantum
variables such as position and momentum. The result of such analog quantum
error correction is the construction of composite continuous quantum variables
that are largely immune to the effects of noise and decoherence.

Counterfactuals in quantum theory are briefly reviewed and it is argued that
they are very different from counterfactuals considered in the general
philosophical literature. The issue of time symmetry of quantum counterfactuals
is considered and a novel time-symmetric definition of quantum counterfactuals
is proposed. This definition is applied for analyzing several controversies
related to quantum counterfactuals.

Recently it has been proposed, using the formalism of
positive-operator-valued measures, a possible definition of quantum coordinates
for events in the context of quantum mechanics. In this short note we analyze
this definition from the point of view of local algebras in the framework of
local quantum theories.

Measurement and fluctuations are closely related to each other in quantum
mechanics. This fact is explicitly demonstrated in the case of a quantum
non-demolition photodetector which is composed of a double quantum-wire
electron interferometer.

Computational devices may be supplied with external sources of information
(oracles). Quantum oracles may transmit phase information which is available to
a quantum computer but not a classical computer. One consequence of this
observation is that there is an oracle which is of no assistance to a classical
computer but which allows a quantum computer to solve undecidable problems.
Thus useful relativized separations between quantum and classical complexity
classes must exclude the transmission of phase information from oracle to
computer.

Consequences of the deviation from the linear on time quantum transition
probabilities leading to the nonexponential decay law and to the so-called Zeno
effect are analysed. Main features of the quantum Zeno and quantum anti-Zeno
effects for induced transitions are revealed on simple model systems.

A quantum telecloning process combining quantum teleportation and optimal
quantum cloning from one input to M outputs is presented. The scheme relies on
the establishment of particular multiparticle entangled states, which function
as multiuser quantum information channels. The entanglement structure of these
states is analyzed and shown to be crucial for this type of information
processing.

We show that the distribution of information at the output of the quantum
cloner can be efficiently controlled via preparation of the quantum cloner. We
present a universal cloning network with the help of which asymmetric cloning
can be performed.

By placing changeable nanofabricated structures (wires, dots, etc.) on an
atom mirror one can design guiding and trapping potentials for atoms. These
potentials are similar to the electrostatic potentials which trap and guide
electrons in semiconductor quantum devices like quantum wires and quantum dots.
This technique will allow the fabrication of nanoscale atom optical devices.

We show that Nechiporuk's method for proving lower bound for Boolean formulas
can be extended to the quantum case. This leads to an n^2 / log^2 n lower bound
for quantum formulas computing an explicit function. The only known previous
explicit lower bound for quantum formulas (by Yao) states that the majority
function does not have a linear-size quantum formula.

We give a basic overview of computational complexity, query complexity, and
communication complexity, with quantum information incorporated into each of
these scenarios. The aim is to provide simple but clear definitions, and to
highlight the interplay between the three scenarios and currently-known quantum
algorithms.

We show that the quantum superluminal communication based on the quantum
nonlocal influence, if exists, will not result in the causal loop, this
conclusion is essentially determined by the peculiarity of the quantum nonlocal
influence itself, according to which there must exist a preferred Lorentz frame
for consistently describing the quantum nonlocal process.

We formulate a novel ground state quantum computation approach that requires
no unitary evolution of qubits in time: the qubits are fixed in stationary
states of the Hamiltonian. This formulation supplies a completely
time-independent approach to realizing quantum computers. We give a concrete
suggestion for a ground state quantum computer involving linked quantum dots.

The main goal of this paper is to give a pedagogical introduction to Quantum
Information Theory-to do this in a new way, using network diagrams called
Quantum Bayesian Nets. A lesser goal of the paper is to propose a few new
ideas, such as associating with each quantum Bayesian net a very useful density
matrix that we call the meta density matrix.

We transfer the concept of linear feed-back shift registers to quantum
circuits. It is shown how to use these quantum linear shift registers for
encoding and decoding cyclic quantum error-correcting codes.

We describe a quantum algorithm to compute the density of states and thermal
equilibrium properties of quantum many-body systems. We present results
obtained by running this algorithm on a software implementation of a 21-qubit
quantum computer for the case of an antiferromagnetic Heisenberg model on
triangular lattices of different size.

We present a scheme to prepare a quantum state in a ion trap with probability
approaching to one by means of ion trap quantum computing and Grover's quantum
search algorithm acting on trapped ions.

The previously proposed Heisenberg-type relation $ E_c t_c >> \hbar {\cal C}$
for the energy used by a quantum computer, the total computation time and the
logical ("classical") complexity of the problem is verified for the following
examples of quantum computations: preparation of the input state, two
Hamiltonian versions of the Grover's algorithm, a model of "quantum telephone
directory", a quantum-optical device factorizing numbers and the Shor's
algorithm.

Given two unsorted lists each of length N that have a single common entry, a
quantum computer can find that matching element with a work factor of
$O(N^{3/4}\log N)$ (measured in quantum memory accesses and accesses to each
list). The amount of quantum memory required is $O(N^{1/2})$. The quantum
algorithm that accomplishes this consists of an inner Grover search combined
with a partial sort all sitting inside of an outer Grover search.

A new method for computing sums on a quantum computer is introduced. This
technique uses the quantum Fourier transform and reduces the number of qubits
necessary for addition by removing the need for temporary carry bits. This
approach also allows the addition of a classical number to a quantum
superposition without encoding the classical number in the quantum register.
This method also allows for massive parallelization in its execution.

Necessary and sufficient conditions are given for the construction of a
hybrid quantum computer that operates on both continuous and discrete quantum
variables. Such hybrid computers are shown to be more efficient than
conventional quantum computers for performing a variety of quantum algorithms,
such as computing eigenvectors and eigenvalues.

Insofar as quantum computation is faster than classical, it appears to be
irreversible. In all quantum algorithms found so far the speed-up depends on
the extra-dynamical irreversible projection representing quantum measurement.
Quantum measurement performs a computation that dynamical computation cannot
accomplish as efficiently.

In ``Quantum Evolution: Life in the Multiverse'' (HarperCollins, 2000), ISBN
0-00-255948-X, 0-00-655128-9, Johnjoe McFadden makes far-reaching claims for
the importance of quantum physics in the solution of problems in biological
science. In this review, I discuss the relevance of unitary wavefunction
dynamics to biological systems, analyse the inverse quantum Zeno effect, and
argue that McFadden's use of quantum theory is deeply flawed.

The dynamics of a quantum system undergoing measurements is investigated.
Depending on the features of the interaction Hamiltonian, the decay can be
slowed (quantum Zeno effect) or accelerated (inverse quantum Zeno effect), by
changing the time interval between successive (pulsed) measurements or,
alternatively, by varying the "strength" of the (continuous) measurement.

Compared to quantum logic gates, quantum memory has received far less
attention. Here, we explore the prognosis for a solid-state, scalable quantum
dynamic random access memory (Q-DRAM), where the qubits are encoded by the spin
orientations of single quantons in exchange-decoupled quantum dots. We address,
in particular, various possibilities for implementing refresh cycles.

In this paper a system-oriented formalism of Quantum Information Processing
is presented. Its form resembles that of standard signal processing, although
further complexity is added in order to describe pure quantum-mechanical
effects and operations. Examples of the application of the formalism to quantum
time evolution and quantum measurement are given.

A scheme is proposed for simultaneous intraportation of many unknown quantum
states within a quantum computing network. It is shown that our scheme, much
different from the teleportation in the strict sense, can be very similar to
the original teleportation proposal[Phys.Rev.Lett.{\bf 70} (1993)1895)] and the
efficiency of the scheme for quantum state transmission is very high. The
possible applications of our scheme are also discussed.

We demonstrate a strategy for implementation a quantum full adder in a spin
chain quantum computer. As an example, we simulate a quantum full adder in a
chain containing 201 spins. Our simulations also demonstrate how one can
minimize errors generated by non-resonant effects.

We have previously proposed a conjecture stating that quantum mechanical
transition amplitudes can be parametrized in terms of a quantum action. Here we
give a proof of the conjecture and establish the existance of a local quantum
action in the case of imaginary time in the Feynman-Kac limit (when temperature
goes to zero). Moreover we discuss some symmetry properties of the quantum
action.

We identify a set of quantum graphs with unique and precisely defined
spectral properties called {\it regular quantum graphs}. Although chaotic in
their classical limit with positive topological entropy, regular quantum graphs
are explicitly solvable. The proof is constructive: we present exact periodic
orbit expansions for individual energy levels, thus obtaining an analytical
solution for the spectrum of regular quantum graphs that is complete, explicit
and exact.

The aim of this paper is to introduce our idea of Holonomic Quantum
Computation (Computer). Our model is based on both harmonic oscillators and
non-linear quantum optics, not on spins of usual quantum computation and our
method is moreover completely geometrical. We hope that therefore our model may
be strong for decoherence.

Recently T. Kieu (arXiv:quant-ph/0110136) claimed a quantum algorithm
computing some functions beyond the Church-Turing class. He notes that "it is
in fact widely believed that quantum computation cannot offer anything new
about computability" and claims the opposite. However, his quantum algorithm
does not work, which is the point of my short note. I still believe that
quantum computation leads to new complexity but retains the old computability.

Quantum computing gates are proposed to apply on trapped ions in
decoherence-free states. As phase changes due to time evolution of components
with different eigenenergies of quantum superposition are completely frozen,
quantum computing based on this model would be perfect. Possible application of
our scheme in future ion-trap quantum computer is discussed.

A new notation for the quantum teleportation of finite dimensional quantum
state through a generally entangled quantum channel is introduced. For a given
quantum channel an explict mathematical criterion that governs the faithful
teleportation is presented.

Using the relativistic quantum Hamilton-Jacobi equation within the framework
of the equivalence postulate, and grounding one self on both relativistic and
quantum Lagrangians, we construct a Lagrangian of relativistic quantum system
in one dimension and derive a third order equation of motion representing a
first integral of the relativistic quantum Newton's law. Then, we investigate
the free particle case and establish the photon's trajectories.

The pure state space of Quantum Mechanics is investigated as Hermitian
Symmetric Kaehler manifold. The classical principles of Quantum Mechanics
(Quantum Superposition Principle, Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle, Quantum
Probability Principle) and Spectral Theory of observables are discussed in this
non linear geometrical context.

This is a brief overview of quantum holonomies in the context of quantum
computation. We choose an adequate set of quantum logic gates, namely, a phase
gate, the Hadamard gate, and a conditional-phase gate and show how they can be
implemented by purely geometric means. Such gates may be more resilient to
certain types of errors.

In all the various proposals for quantum computers, a common feature is that
the quantum circuits are expected to be made of cascades of unitary
transformations acting on the quantum states. A framework is proposed to
express these elementary quantum gates directly in terms of the control inputs
entering into the continuous time forced Schrodinger equation.

We propose a scheme to implement two-qubit Grover's quantum search algorithm
using Cavity Quantum Electrodynamics. Circular Rydberg atoms are used as
quantum bits (qubits). They interact with the electromagnetic field of a
non-resonant cavity . The quantum gate dynamics is provided by a
cavity-assisted collision, robust against decoherence processes. We present the
detailed procedure and analyze the experimental feasibility.

The paper shortly presents the role of Stochastic Processes Theory in the
present day Quantum Theory, and the relation to Operational Quantum Physics.
The dynamics of an open quantum system is studied on a usual example from
Quantum Optics, suggesting the definition of a Neumark-type dilation for the
non-thermal states.

In this letter we propose a scheme to build up high coherent solid-state
quantum bit (qubit) from two coupled quantum dots. Quantum information is
stored in electron-hole pair state with the electron and hole locating in
different dots, and universal quantum gates involving any pair of qubits are
realized by effective coupling interaction via virtually exchanging cavity
photons.

There is a certainty that the modern (Copenhagen's) interpretation of quantum
mechanics is correct. However, the some physicist had the opinion that the
modern quantum mechanics is a phenomenological theory. The suggested theory is
the new quantum mechanics interpretation that is entirely according to the
modern interpretation and gives a number of results, which naturally explain
the postulates of the modern quantum mechanics.

In this letter, we show that the laser Hamiltonian can perform the quantum
search. We also show that the process of quantum search is a resonance between
the initial state and the target state, which implies that Nature already has a
quantum search system to use a transition of energy. In addition, we provide
the particular scheme to implement the quantum search algorithm based on a
trapped ion.

Interpretations of quantum measurement theory have been plagued by two
questions, one concerning the role of observer consciousness and the other the
entanglement phenomenon arising from the superposition of quantum states. We
emphasize here the remarkable role of quantum statistics in describing the
entanglement problem correctly and discuss the relationship to issues arising
from current discussions of intelligent observers in entangled, decohering
quantum worlds.

We propose a scheme for the quantum nondemolition (QND) measurement of a
single electron spin in a single quantum dot (QD). Analytical expressions are
obtained for the optical Faraday effect between a quantum dot exciton and
microcavity field. The feasibility of the QND measurement of a single electron
spin is discussed for a GaAs/AlAs microcavity with an InAs QD.

We proposed a new scheme for quantum key distribution based on entanglement
swapping. By this protocol \QTR{em}{Alice} can securely share a random quantum
key with \QTR{em}{Bob}, without transporting any particle.

The Hopfield neural networks and the holographic neural networks are models
which were successfully simulated on conventional computers. Starting with
these models, an analogous fundamental quantum information processing system is
developed in this article. Neuro-quantum interaction can regulate the
"collapse"-readout of quantum computation results. This paper is a
comprehensive introduction into associative processing and memory-storage in
quantum-physical framework.

We formulate and study, in general terms, the problem of quantum system
identification, i.e., the determination (or estimation) of unknown quantum
channels through their action on suitably chosen input density operators. We
also present a quantitative analysis of the worst-case performance of these
schemes.

In spite of all {\bf no-go} theorems (e.g., von Neumann, Kochen and
Specker,..., Bell,...) we constructed a realist basis of quantum mechanics. In
our model both classical and quantum spaces b are rough images of the
fundamental {\bf prespace.} Quantum mechanics cannot be reduced to classical
one. Both classical and quantum representations induce reductions of prespace
information.

Information-theoretic derivations of the formalism of quantum theory have
recently attracted much attention. We analyze the axioms underlying a few such
derivations and propose a conceptual framework in which, by combining several
approaches, one can retrieve more of the conventional quantum formalism.

There are quantum circuit identities that simplify quantum circuits, reducing
the effort needed physically to implement them. This paper constructs all
identities made from 3 or fewer operations taken from a common set of one qubit
operations, and explains how they may be used to simplify the cost of
constructing quantum circuit identities.

This paper presents a new modified quantum mechanics, Critical Complexity
Quantum Mechanics, which includes a new account of wavefunction collapse. This
modified quantum mechanics is shown to arise naturally from a fully discrete
physics, where all physical quantities are discrete rather than continuous. I
compare this theory with the spontaneous collapse theories of Ghirardi, Rimini,
Weber and Pearle and discuss some implications of the theory for a realist view
of the quantum realm.

It has been suggested that the ability of quantum mechanics to allow secure
distribution of secret key together with its inability to allow bit commitment
or communicate superluminally might be sufficient to imply the rest of quantum
mechanics. I argue using a toy theory as a counterexample that this is not the
case. I further discuss whether an additional axiom (key storage) brings back
the quantum nature of the theory.

This note presents a method to authenticate a quantum message based on
classical SN-S authentication code and the computations between different
quantum registers. If the pre-coding generator matrix in SN-S code is public,
the quantum scheme is a public-key data integrity scheme; if it is secret, the
quantum scheme is a hybrid data origin authentication scheme.

We first give a brief overview over quantum computing, quantum key
distribution (QKD), a practical architecture that integrates (QKD) in current
internet security architectures, and aspects of network security. We introduce
the concept of quantum contracts inspired from game theory. Finally, we
introduce the basic architecture of the quantum internet and present some
protocols.

We propose an approach to optical quantum computation in which a
deterministic entangling quantum gate may be performed using, on average, a few
hundred coherently interacting optical elements (beamsplitters, phase shifters,
single photon sources, and photodetectors with feedforward). This scheme
combines ideas from the optical quantum computing proposal of Knill, Laflamme
and Milburn [Nature 409 (6816), 46 (2001)], and the abstract cluster-state
model of quantum computation proposed by Raussendorf and Briegel [Phys. Rev.
Lett. 86, 5188 (2001)].

The claim that there is an inconsistency of quantum-classical dynamics [1] is
investigated. We point out that a consistent formulation of quantum and
classical dynamics which can be used to describe quantum measurement processes
is already available in the literature [2]. An example in which a quantum
system is interacting with a classical system is worked out using this
formulation.

We define the quantum zero-error capacity, a new kind of classical capacity
of a noisy quantum channel. Moreover, the necessary requirement for which a
quantum channel has zero-error capacity greater than zero is also given.

Ohya and Volovich have proposed a new quantum computation model with chaotic
amplification to solve the SAT problem, which went beyond usual quantum
algorithm. In this paper, we generalize quantum Turing machine, and we show in
this general quantum Turing machine (GQTM) that we can treat the Ohya-Volovich
(OV) SAT algorithm.

This review gives a survey of numerical algorithms and software to simulate
quantum computers.It covers the basic concepts of quantum computation and
quantum algorithms and includes a few examples that illustrate the use of
simulation software for ideal and physical models of quantum computers.

In the paper is considered stairway-like design of quantum computer, i.e.,
array of double quantum dots or wells. The model is quite general to include
wide variety of physical systems from coupled quantum dots in experiments with
solid state qubits, to very complex one, like DNA molecule. At the same time it
is concrete enough, to describe main physical principles for implementation of
universal set of quantum gates, initialization, measurement, decoherence, etc.

We propose an experimentally feasible scheme to realize the nonlocal gate
between two different quantum network nodes. With an entanglement-qubit (ebit)
acts as a quantum channel, our scheme is resistive to actual environment noise
and can get high fidelity in current cavity quantum electrodynamics (C-QED)
system.

We study quantum key distribution with standard weak coherent states and
show, rather counter-intuitively, that the detection events originated from
vacua can contribute to secure key generation rate, over and above the best
prior art result. Our proof is based on a communication complexity/quantum
memory argument.

We analyze the critical quantum fluctuations in a coherently driven planar
optical parametric oscillator. We show that the presence of transverse modes
combined with quantum fluctuations changes the behavior of the `quantum image'
critical point. This zero-temperature non-equilibrium quantum system has the
same universality class as a finite-temperature magnetic Lifshitz transition.

This essay gives a self-contained introduction to quantum game theory, and is
primarily oriented to economists with little or no acquaintance with quantum
mechanics. It assumes little more than a basic knowledge of vector algebra.
Quantum mechanical notation and results are introduced as needed. It is also
shown that some fundamental problems of quantum mechanics can be formulated as
games.

By taking a Klein-Gordon field as the environment of an harmonic oscillator
and using a new method for dealing with quantum dissipative systems (minimal
coupling method), the quantum dynamics and radiation reaction for a quantum
damped harmonic oscillator investigated. Applying perturbation method, some
transition probabilities indicating the way energy flows between oscillator,
reservoir and quantum vacuum, obtained

We point out a general framework that encompasses most cases in which quantum
effects enable an increase in precision when estimating a parameter (quantum
metrology). The typical quantum precision-enhancement is of the order of the
square root of the number of times the system is sampled. We prove that this is
optimal and we point out the different strategies (classical and quantum) that
permit to attain this bound.

We study a quantum version of the sequential game illustrating problems
connected with making rational decisions. We compare the results that the two
models (quantum and classical) yield. In the quantum model intransitivity gains
importance significantly. We argue that the quantum model describes our
spontaneously shown preferences more precisely than the classical model, as
these preferences are often intransitive.

Complexity of a quantum analogue of the satisfiability problem is studied.
Quantum k-SAT is a problem of verifying whether there exists n-qubit pure state
such that its k-qubit reduced density matrices have support on prescribed
subspaces. We present a classical algorithm solving quantum 2-SAT in a
polynomial time. It generalizes the well-known algorithm for the classical
2-SAT. Besides, we show that for any k>=4 quantum k-SAT is complete in the
complexity class QMA with one-sided error.

The impossibility of perfect cloning and state estimation are two fundamental
results in Quantum Mechanics. It has been conjectured that quantum cloning
becomes equivalent to state estimation in the asymptotic regime where the
number of clones tends to infinity. We prove this conjecture using two known
results of Quantum Information Theory: the monogamy of quantum correlations and
the properties of entanglement breaking channels.

We analyze the necessary physical conditions to model an open quantum system
as a quantum game. By applying the formalism of Quantum Operations on a
particular system, we use Kraus operators as quantum strategies. The physical
interpretation is a conflict among different configurations of the environment.
The resolution of the conflict displays regimes of minimum loss of information.

We propose a scheme to implement quantum controlled SWAP gates by directing
single-photon pulses to a two-sided cavity with a single trapped atom. The
resultant gates can be used to realize quantum fingerprinting and universal
photonic quantum computation. The performance of the scheme is characterized
under realistic experimental noise with the requirements well within the reach
of the current technology.

A theory of quantum dynamics based on a discrete structure underlying the
space time manifold is developed for single particles. It is shown that at the
micro domain the interaction of particles with the underlying discrete
structure results in the quantum space time manifold. Regarding the resulting
quantum space-time as perturbation from the Lorentz metric it is shown it is
possible to discuss the dynamics of particles in the quantum domain.

We show that quantum dynamical systems can exhibit infinite correlations in
their behavior when repeatedly measured. We model quantum processes using
quantum finite-state generators and take the stochastic language they generate
as a representation of their behavior. We analyze two spin-1 quantum systems
that differ only in how they are observed. The corresponding language generated
has short-range correlation in one case and infinite correlation in the other.

We prove the converse part of the theorem for quantum Hoeffding bound on the
asymptotics of quantum hypothesis testing, essentially based on an argument
developed by Nussbaum and Szkola in proving the converse part of the quantum
Chernoff bound. Our result complements Hayashi's proof of the direct
(achievability) part of the theorem, so that the quantum Hoeffding bound has
now been established.

We present a simultaneous quantum state teleportation scheme, in which
receivers can not recover their quantum state separately. When they want to
recover their respective quantum state, they must perform an unlocking operator
together.

Supmech, an algebraic scheme of mechanics integrating noncommutative
symplectic geometry and noncommutative probability, subsumes quantum and
classical mechanics and permits consistent treatment of interaction of quantum
and classical systems. Quantum measurements are treated in this framework; the
von Neumann reduction rule (generally postulated) is derived and interpreted in
physical terms.

A six-qubit quantum network consisting of conditional unitary gates is
presented which is capable of implementing a large class of covariant two-qubit
quantum operations. Optimal covariant NOT operations for one and two-qubit
systems are special cases contained in this class. The design of this quantum
network exploits basic algebraic properties which also shed new light onto
these covariant quantum processes.

We provide a general framework for quantifying the optimal tradeoff between
the information retrieved by a quantum measurement and the disturbance on the
quantum state in covariant quantum state estimation.

We construct quantum gate entangler for general multipartite states based on
topological unitary operators. We show that these operators can entangle
quantum states if they satisfy the separability condition that is given by the
complex multi-projective Segre variety. We also in detail discuss the
construction of quantum gate entangler for higher dimensional bipartite and
three-partite quantum systems.

This survey, aimed at information processing researchers, highlights
intriguing but lesser known results, corrects misconceptions, and suggests
research areas. Themes include: certainty in quantum algorithms; the "fewer
worlds" theory of quantum mechanics; quantum learning; probability theory
versus quantum mechanics.

We propose a bimetric space-time consisting of two vierbein bundles, in which
a superluminal S-field mediates a causal exchange of quantum information
associated with quantum entanglement. The resulting theory leaves the usual
quantum field interactions, as well as the speed of light unchanged, but
introduces quantum information effects related to the S-field vierbein bundle.
We show that such S-field interactions with the Dirac field, affect its spin
density, as we would expect for a field that would impart entanglement related
information.

All quantum information processes inevitably requires the explicit state
preparation of an entangled state. Here we present the construction of a
quantum switchboard which can act both as an optimal quantum cloning machine
and a quantum demultiplexer based on the preparation of a four-qubit state.

This study examines the simulation of quantum algorithms on a classical
computer. The program code implemented on a classical computer will be a
straight connection between the mathematical formulation of quantum mechanics
and computational methods. The computational language will include formulations
such as quantum state, superposition and quantum operator.

In this paper we consider a phase space path integral for general
time-dependent quantum operations, not necessarily unitary. We obtain the path
integral for a completely positive quantum operation satisfied Lindblad
equation (quantum Markovian master equation). We consider the path integral for
quantum operation with a simple infinitesimal generator.

The working of a quantum computer is described in the concrete example of a
quantum simulator of the single-particle Schrodinger equation. We show that a
register of 6-10 qubits is sufficient to realize a useful quantum simulator
capable of solving in an efficient way standard quantum mechanical problems.

Unlike classical information, quantum knowledge is restricted to the outcome
of measurements of maximal observables corresponding to single contexts.

This paper considers a generalization of the notion of quantum observables in
ontological models of quantum mechanics. Within this framework it is possible
to construct physical models where quantum noncommutativity can arise
dynamically. Unlike quantum systems, the basic entities in this model have
definite properties. Relations with no-go theorems and other hidden variable
theories are also discussed.

This is a continuation of a previous study of quantum vertex algebras of
Zamolodchikov-Faddeev type. In this paper, we focus our attention on the
special case associated to diagonal unitary rational quantum Yang-Baxter
operators. We prove that the associated weak quantum vertex algebras, if not
zero, are irreducible quantum vertex algebras with a normal basis in a certain
sense.

We show that semiclassical formulas such as the Gutzwiller trace formula can
be implemented on a quantum computer more efficiently than on a classical
device. We give explicit quantum algorithms which yield quantum observables
from classical trajectories, and which alternatively test the semiclassical
approximation by computing classical actions from quantum evolution. The gain
over classical computation is in general quadratic, and can be larger in some
specific cases.

In this paper, we introduce and study a noncommutative extension of the Gross
Laplacian, called quantum Gross Laplacian. Then, applying the quantum Gross
Laplacian to the particular case where the operator is the multiplication
operator, we find a relation between classical and quantum Gross Laplacian. As
application, we give explicit solution of linear quantum white noise
differential equation. In particular, we give a explicit solution of the
quantum Gross heat equation.

In this didactical note I review in depth the rationale for using generalised
canonical distributions in quantum statistics. Particular attention is paid to
the proper definitions of quantum entropy and quantum relative entropy, as well
as to quantum state reconstruction on the basis of incomplete data. There are
two appendices in which I outline how generalised canonical distributions link
to the conventional formulation of statistical mechanics, and how classical
probability calculus emerges at the macroscopic level.

We study the possibility of preventing finite-time disentanglement caused by
dissipation by making use of "non-local quantum error correction. This is made
in comparison of previous results, where was shown that "local" quantum error
correction can delay disentanglement, but can also cause entanglement sudden
death when is not originally present.

We construct a quantum gate entangler based on selective phase rotation
transform. In particular, we established a relation between quantum integral
transform and quantum gates entangler in terms of universal controlled gates
for multi-qubit states. Our construction is also related to the geometrical
structure of multipartite quantum systems.

The quantum grassmannian is known to be a graded quantum algebra with a
straightening law when the poset of generating quantum minors is endowed with
the standard partial ordering. In this paper it is shown that this result
remains true when the ordering is subjected to cyclic shifts. The method
involves proving that noncommutative dehomogenisation is possible at any
consecutive quantum minor.

We show that quantum interference can be classically interpreted in terms of
a phase invariant quantity, not unlike the Berry's phase. Under this
interpretation, closed loops in time become fundamental quantum entities, and
all quantum states become periodic. Decoherence is then seen to occur naturally
as a consequence. This formalism, although counterintuitive, provides a useful
way of assigning ``classical'' meaning to quantum probabilities.

In quantum information theory it is generally accepted that quantum mutual
information is an information-theoretic measure of total correlations of a
bipartite quantum state. We argue that there exist quantum states for which
quantum mutual information cannot be considered as a measure of total
correlations. Moreover, for these states we propose a different way of
quantifying total correlations.

We prove that for the torus with one hole and p greater than or equal to 1
punctures and the sphere with four holes there is a family of quantum trace
functions in the quantum Teichm\"uller space, analog to the non-quantum trace
functions in Teichm\"uller space, satisfying the properties proposed by Chekhov
and Fock in their paper "Observables in 3D Gravity and Geodesic Algebras."

In this article, I show that a recent family of quantum algorithms, based on
the quantum amplitude amplification algorithm, can be used to describe a
cognitive heuristic called availability bias. The amplitude amplification
algorithm is used to define quantitatively the ease of a memory task, while the
quantum amplitude estimation and the quantum counting algorithms to describe
cognitive tasks such as estimating probability or approximate counting.

Quantum interrogation can be used as a basic resource for quantum
information. This paper presents its applications to entanglement creation and
to optical quantum computation. The starting point will be a photon to particle
quantum interrogation CZ gate, from which three families of optical CNOT gates
will be derived. These gates are nondestructive and can work with probabilities
arbitrarily close to 1. A possible experimental implementation with atomic
ensembles is also discussed.

We propose a new formalism of quantum subsystems which allows to unify the
existing and new methods of reduced description of quantum systems. The main
mathematical ingredients are completely positive maps and correlation
functions. In this formalism generalized quantum systems can be composed and
there is a notion of generalized entanglement. Models of fermionic and bosonic
systems and also quantum systems described by the SU(2) symmetry are studied.

The canonical Schmidt decomposition of quantum states is discussed and its
implementation to the Quantum Computation Simulator is outlined. In particular,
the semiorder relation in the space of quantum states induced by the
lexicographic semiorder of the space of the Schmidt coefficients is discussed.
The appropriate sorting algorithms on the corresponding POSETs consisting from
quantum states are formulated and theirs computer implementations are being
tested.

In this comment, we present a frequency-shift attack on "quantum key
distribution with classical Bob". This practical attack should also be
considered in other two-way quantum key distribution protocols.

We prove that some well known compact quantum spaces like quantum tori and
some quantum two-spheres do not admit a compact quantum group structure. This
is achieved by considering existence of traces, characters and nuclearity of
the corresponding $\mathrm{C}^*$-algebras.

The traditional approach to feedback control is to apply forces to a system
by modifying the Hamiltonian. Here we show that quantum systems can be
controlled without any Hamiltonian feedback, purely by exploiting the random
quantum back-action of a continuous weak measurement. We demonstrate that,
quite remarkably, the quantum back-action of such an adaptive measurement is
just as effective at controlling quantum systems as traditional feedback.

The traditional quantum control theory focuses on linear quantum system. Here
we show the effect of nonlinearity on quantum control of a two-level system, we
find that the nonlinearity can change the controllability of quantum system.
Furthermore, we demonstrate that the Lyapunov control can be used to overcome
this uncontrollability induced by the nonlinear effect.

Hoare logic is a foundation of axiomatic semantics of classical programs and
it provides effective proof techniques for reasoning about correctness of
classical programs. To offer similar techniques for quantum program
verification and to build a logical foundation of programming methodology for
quantum computers, we develop a full-fledged Hoare logic for both partial and
total correctness of quantum programs. It is proved that this logic is
(relatively) complete by exploiting the power of weakest preconditions and
weakest liberal preconditions for quantum programs.

We study Hom-quantum groups, their representations, and module Hom-algebras.
Two Twisting Principles for Hom-type algebras are formulated, and construction
results are proved following these Twisting Principles. Examples include
Hom-quantum n-spaces, Hom-quantum enveloping algebras of Kac-Moody algebras,
Hom-Verma modules, and Hom-type analogs of U_q(sl_2)-module-algebra structures
on the quantum planes.

We consider the dating market decision problem under the quantum mechanics
point of view.
  Quantum states whose associated amplitudes are modified by men strategies are
used to represent women.
  Grover quantum search algorithm is used as a playing strategy. Success is
more frequently obtained by playing quantum than playing classic.

In this brief note is discussed application of continuous quantum history
("trash") variable for simplification of scheme of programmable quantum
processor. Similar scheme may be tested also in other models of the theory of
quantum algorithms and complexity, because provides modification of a standard
operation: quantum function evaluation.

We have studied the analytical Markovian and non-Markovian dynamics of
quantum correlations, such as entanglement, quantum discord and Bell
nonlocalities for three noisy qubits. Quantum correlation as measured by
quantum discord is found to be immune to death contrary to entanglement and
Bell nonlocality for initial GHZ- or W-type mixed states.

We propose a notion of isometric coaction of a compact quantum group on a
compact quantum metric space in the framework of Rieffel where the metric
structure is given by a Lipnorm. We prove the existence of a quantum isometry
group for finite metric quantum spaces, preserving a given state.

We generalize a concept of classical finite extensive game to make it useful
for application of quantum objects. The generalization extends a quantum
realization scheme of static games to any finite extensive game. It represents
an extension of any classical finite extensive games to the quantum domain. In
addition our model is compatible with well-known quantum schemes of static
games. The paper is summed up by two examples.

This white paper aims to identify an open problem in 'Quantum Physics and the
Nature of Reality' --namely whether quantum theory and special relativity are
formally compatible--, to indicate what the underlying issues are, and put
forward ideas about how the problem might be addressed.

We present experimentally testable quantum limitations on the
phase-insensitive linear amplification and phase conjugation with respect to
the transformation of a Gaussian distributed set of coherent states following
the footing to assess the success of continuous-variable quantum teleportation
and quantum memory devices. The results enable us to compare the real device
with the quantum limited device via feasible input of coherent states.

An algorithm based on quantum phase estimation, which discriminates quantum
states nondestructively within a set of arbitrary orthogonal states, is
described and experimentally verified by a NMR quantum information processor.
The procedure is scalable and can be applied to any set of orthogonal states.
Scalability is demonstrated through Matlab simulation.

We study the motion of M particles performing a quantum walk on the line.
Under various conditions on the initial coin states for quantum walkers
controlled by the Hadamard operator, we give theoretical criterion to observe
the quantum walkers at an initial location with high probability.

We present a dynamic approach to study the quantum discord and classical
correlation. By local filtering operation, the evaluation of quantum discord is
closely related to quantum channel and channel capacity. As a consequence, the
traditional optimization over horizontal-or-vertical von Neumann measurements
is replaced by that over horizontal-and-vertical three-element POVM
measurement, from which more rigorous results of quantum discord are obtained.

We propose and construct a quantum money scheme that allows verification
through classical communication with a bank. This is the first demonstration
that a secure quantum money scheme exists that does not require quantum
communication for coin verification.
  Our scheme is secure against adaptive adversaries - this property is not
directly related to the possibility of classical verification, nevertheless
none of the earlier quantum money constructions is known to possess it.

We propose an experimental method for a quantum protocol termed quantum
energy teleportation (QET), which allows energy transportation to a remote
location without physical carriers. Using a quantum Hall system as a realistic
model, we discuss the physical significance of QET and estimate the order of
energy gain using reasonable experimental parameters.

We present a scheme for playing quantum repeated 2x2 games based on the
Marinatto and Weber's approach to quantum games. As a potential application, we
study twice repeated Prisoner's Dilemma game. We show that results not
available in classical game can be obtained when the game is played in the
quantum way. Before we present our idea, we comment on the previous scheme of
playing quantum repeated games.

We argue that a quantum aether is consistent with the principle of relativity
and can provide an economical way of having an invariant quantum gravity or
Planck scale. We also show that it may change the effective scale at which
quantum gravity effects may be observable.

The quantum dimensions of modules for vertex operator algebras are defined
and their properties are discussed. The possible values of the quantum
dimensions are obtained for rational vertex operator algebras. A criterion for
simple currents of a rational vertex operator algebra is given. A full Galois
theory for rational vertex operator algebras is established using the quantum
dimensions.

We introduce a quantisation of the Coxeter-Conway frieze patterns and prove
that they realise quantum cluster variables in quantum cluster algebras
associated with linearly oriented Dynkin quivers of type A. As an application,
we obtain the explicit polynomials arising from the lower bound phenomenon in
these quantum cluster algebras.

The depolarizing quantum operation plays an important role in studying the
quantum noise effect and implementing general quantum operations. In this work,
we report a scheme which implements a fully controllable input-state
independent depolarizing quantum operation for a photonic polarization qubit.

This paper is intended to be a pedagogical introduction to quantum Bayesian
networks (QB nets), as I personally use them to represent mixed states (i.e.,
density matrices, and open quantum systems). A special effort is made to make
contact with notions used in textbooks on quantum Shannon Information Theory
(quantum SIT), such as the one by Mark Wilde (arXiv:1106.1445)

We propose a set of linear quantum entanglement witnesses constituted by
local quantum-mechanical observables with each two possible measurement
outcomes. These witnesses detect all the entangled resources which give rise to
a better fidelity than separable states in quantum teleportation and present
both sufficient and necessary conditions in experimentally detecting the useful
resources for quantum teleportation.

The goal of this paper is to construct quantum analogues of Chevalley groups
inside completions of quantum groups or, more precisely, inside completions of
Hall algebras of finitary categories. In particular, we obtain pentagonal and
other identities in the quantum Chevalley groups which generalize their
classical counterparts and explain Faddeev-Volkov quantum dilogarithmic
identities and their recent generalizations due to Keller

Shielding effects in non-degenerate and degenerate plasmas are compared. A
detailed derivation of the Wigner-Poisson system is provided for electrostatic
quantum plasmas where relativistic, spin and collisional effects are not
essential. Later a detailed derivation of a quantum hydrodynamic model starting
from the Wigner-Poisson system is shown. The route for this derivation
considers the eikonal decomposition of the one-body wavefunctions of the
quantum statistical mixture. The merits and limitations of the resulting
quantum hydrodynamic model are discussed.

In this paper, the physical realizability property is investigated for a
class of nonlinear quantum systems. This property determines whether a given
set of nonlinear quantum stochastic differential equations corresponds to a
physical nonlinear quantum system satisfying the laws of quantum mechanics.

We show that the quantum discord and the measurement induced non-locality
(MiN) in a bipartite quantum state is invariant under the action of a local
quantum channel if and only if the channel is invertible. In particular, these
quantities are invariant under a local unitary channel.

We consider an extension of Discrete Time Markov Chain queueing model to the
quantum domain by use of Discrete Time Quantum Markov Chain. We introduce
methods for numerical analysis of such models. Using this tools we show that
quantum model behaves fundamentally differently from the classical one.

We construct concatenated capacity-achieving quantum codes for noisy optical
quantum channels. We demonstrate that the error-probability of
capacity-achieving quantum polar encoding can be reduced by the proposed
low-complexity concatenation scheme.

In quantum mechanics, often it is important for the representation of quantum
system to study the structure-preserving bijective maps of the quantum system.
Such maps are also called isomorphisms or automorphisms. In this note, using
the Uhlhorn-type of Wigner's theorem, we characterize all affine automorphisms
and ortho-order automorphisms of quantum probabilistic maps.

Categorified quantum groups play an increasing role in quantum topology and
representation theory. The Steenrod algebra is a fundamental component of
algebraic topology. In this paper we show that categorified quantum groups can
be extended to module categories over the Steenrod algebra in a natural way.
This yields an intepretation of the small quantum group by Khovanov and Qi.

We present a brief non-technical introduction to the standing discussion on
the relation between Quantum Mechanics and Determinism. Quantum Mechanics
inherent randomness in the measurement process is sometimes presented as a door
to explain free will. We argue against this interpretation. The possibility
that Quantum Mechanics provides just an effective description of Nature which
is only valid at our low-energy scales is also discussed.

As an analog of the quantum TKK algebra, a twisted quantum toroidal algebra
of type A_1 is introduced. Explicit realization of the new quantum TKK algebra
is constructed with the help of twisted quantum vertex operators over a Fock
space.

This review article describes theoretical and experimental advances in using
quantum dots as a system for studying impurity quantum phase transitions and
the non-Fermi liquid behavior at the quantum critical point.

In this paper we introduce a technique and a tool for formal verification of
various quantum information processing protocols. The tool uses stabilizer
formalism and is capable of representing concurrent quantum protocol, thus is
more expressive than quantum circuits. We also report on experimental results
of using our Quantum Equivalence Checker (QEC) to analyse a range of quantum
information processing protocols.

Using a quantum circuit model we derive the maximal ability to distinguish
which of several candidate Hamiltonians describe an open quantum system. This
theory, in particular, provides the maximum information retrievable from
continuous quantum measurement records, available when a quantum system is
perturbatively coupled to a broadband quantized environment.

We present the classical Hotelling model we want to quantize, and investigate
the quantum consequences of the game. Our results demonstrate that the quantum
game give higher profit for both players, and that with the quantum
entanglement parameter increasing, the quantum benefit over the classical
increases too. Then we extend the model to a more general form, and quantum
advantage keeps unchanged.

We present two new quantum union bounds for sequential projective
measurements. These bounds estimate the disturbance accumulation and
probability of outcomes when the measurements are performed sequentially. These
results are based on a trigonometric representation of quantum states and
should have wide application in quantum information theory for information
processing tasks such as communication and state discrimination, and perhaps
even in the analysis of quantum algorithms.

In this paper we consider a generalization of quantum hash functions for
arbitrary groups. We show that quantum hash function exists for arbitrary
abelian group. We construct a set of "good" automorphisms --- a key component
of quantum hash funciton. We prove some restrictions on Hilbert space dimension
and group used in quantum hash function

This paper provides a quantum-mechanical analysis of an artwork, `Wigner's
friends,' by Diemut Strebe. The work consists of two telescopes, one on earth,
one launched into space, and explores ideas of quantum correlations and quantum
measurement. This paper examines the scientific basis of the work and analyzes
the form of quantum correlation between the two telescope systems.

We realize shamir's no-key protocol via quantum computation of Boolean
permutation and private quantum channel. The quantum no-key (QNK) protocol
presented here is one with mutual authentications, and proved to be
unconditionally secure. An important property of this protocol is that0 its
authentication key can be reused permanently.

It is shown that adopting the \emph{Quantum Field} ---extended entity in
space-time build by dynamic appearance propagation and annihilation of virtual
particles--- as the primary ontology the astonishing features of quantum
mechanics can be rendered intuitive. This interpretation of quantum mechanics
follows from the formalism of the most successful theory in physics: quantum
field theory.

The aim of this article is to define a time-dependent cosmological
interpretation of quantum mechanics in the context of an infinite open FLRW
universe. A time-dependent quantum state is defined for observers in similar
observable universes by using the particle horizon. Then, we prove that the
wave function collapse of this quantum state is avoided.

In this work, we show that the usage of a quantum gate that gives extra
information about the solution searched permits to improve the performance of
the search algorithm by switching from quantum to classical search in the
appropriated moment. A comparison to the case where only quantum search is used
is also realized.

We introduce a Z$_3$-graded quantum $(2+1)$-superspace and define
Z$_3$-graded Hopf algebra structure on algebra of functions on the Z$_3$-graded
quantum superspace. We construct a differential calculus on the Z$_3$-graded
quantum superspace, and obtain the corresponding Z$_3$-graded Lie superalgebra.
We also find a new Z$_3$-graded quantum supergroup which is a symmetry group of
this calculus.

The standard formulation of Quantum Mechanics violates locality of
interactions and the action reaction principle. An alternative formulation in
an extended phase space could preserve both principles, but Bell's theorems
show that a distribution of probability in a space of local variables can not
reproduce the quantum correlations.
  An extended phase space is defined in an alternative formulation of Quantum
Mechanics. Quantum states are represented by a complex va\-lued distribution of
amplitude, so that Bell's theorems do not apply.

Based on some results on reparmetrisation of time in Hamiltonian path
integral formalism, a pseudo time formulation of operator formalism of quantum
mechanics is presented. Relation of reparametrisation of time in quantum with
super symmetric quantum mechanics is established. We show how some important
concepts such as shape invariance and tools like isospectral deformation appear
in pseudo time quantum mechanics.

This "Perspectives" paper gives a brief overview of the recent developments
with quantum-gas microscopes and how they can be used to build the next
generation of cold-atom quantum simulators.

In quantum systems, a plausible definition of work is based on two energy
measurement scheme. Considering that energy change of quantum system obeys a
time-energy uncertainty relation, it shall be interesting to see whether such
type of work as well obeys an analogous uncertainty relation. In this note I
argue that this relation indeed exists for closed quantum systems and open
quantum systems, which the latter are assumed to be weakly coupled with their
environments.

We present a formulation of the decoherent (or consistent) histories quantum
theory of closed systems starting with records of what histories happen.
Alternative routes to a formulation of quantum theory like this one can be
useful both for understanding quantum mechanics and for generalizing and
extending it to new realms of application and experimental test.

The task of programming a quantum computer is just as strange as quantum
mechanics itself. But it now looks like a simple 3D puzzle may be the future
tool of quantum software engineers.

Asymmetric quantum error-correcting codes are quantum codes defined over
biased quantum channels: qubit-flip and phase-shift errors may have equal or
different probabilities. The code construction is the Calderbank-Shor-Steane
construction based on two linear codes.
  We present families of toric surfaces, toric codes and associated asymmetric
quantum error-correcting codes.

We present a quantum algorithm for the calculation of scattering amplitudes
of massive charged scalar particles in scalar quantum electrodynamics. Our
algorithm is based on continuous-variable quantum computing architecture
resulting in expo- nential speedup over classical methods. We derive a simple
form of the Hamiltonian including interactions, and a straightforward
implementation of the constraint due to gauge invariance.

A semi-quantum key distribution (SQKD) protocol allows a quantum user and a
limited "classical" user to establish a shared secret key secure against an
all-powerful adversary. In this work, we present a new SQKD protocol where the
quantum user is also limited in her measurement capabilities. We describe the
protocol, prove its security, and show its noise tolerance is as high as "fully
quantum" QKD protocols.

In order to build a quantum analog of traditional Carnot engine, a common
choice is replacing the two thermodynamic adiabatic processes with two quantum
mechanical adiabatic processes. In general, such quantum Carnot engine has six
strokes. We analyze the efficiency of such six-stroke quantum Carnot engine in
a perturbative way.

Within the general context of the architecture in quantum computer design,
this paper aims is to provide a general strategy to obtain a block-matrix
representation of quantum gates applied to qubits placed in arbitrary positions
over an arbitrary dimensional input state. The model is also extended to the
framework of quantum computation with qudits. An application in the context of
the quantum computational logic is provided.

We present a simple protocol for certifying graph states in quantum networks
using stabiliser measurements. The certification statements can easily be
applied to different protocols using graph states. We see for example how it
can be used to for measurement based verified quantum compu- tation, certified
sampling of random unitaries and quantum metrology and sharing quantum secrets
over untrusted channels.

Quantum gravity is expected to require modifications of the notions of space
and time. I discuss and clarify how this happens in Loop Quantum Gravity.

Uniquely among the sciences, quantum cryptography has driven both
foundational research as well as practical real-life applications. We review
the progress of quantum cryptography in the last decade, covering quantum key
distribution and other applications.

Quantum information is a useful resource to set up information processing.
Despite physical components are normally two-level systems, their combination
with entangling interactions becomes in a complex dynamics. Studied for
piecewise field pulses, this work analyzes the modeling for quantum information
operations with fields affordable technologically towards a universal quantum
computation model.

We show that quantum indefinite causal structure generically reduce two-party
correlations. For significant indefiniteness in the causal structure captured
by some general conditions, the correlation is shown to be reduced down to
zero. The result offers an operational model-independent ultraviolet
regularization mechanism. It may be applied to various approaches of quantum
gravity that allow quantum indefinite spacetime causal structure.

We map the geometric quantum potential on the nonlinear sigma model and use
homotopy to estimate the lower bound of the geometric quantum potential. We
investigate a catenoid (wormhole section), a two dimensional bilayer geometry
smoothly connected by a neck and a torus to show that in all these cases the
geometric quantum potential creates topologically stable quantum states.

We study the quality of service in quantum channels. We regard the quantum
channel as a queueing system, and present queueing analysis of both the
classical information transmission and quantum information transmission in the
quantum channel. For the former, we link the analysis to the classical queueing
model, for the latter, we propose a new queueing model and investigate the
limit queueing behavior. For both scenarios, we obtain tail distributions of
the performance measures, i.e., backlog, delay, and throughput.

This article discusses the essential difficulties in developing
model-checking techniques for quantum systems that are never present in model
checking classical systems. It further reviews some early researches on
checking quantum communication protocols as well as a new line of researches
pursued by the authors and their collaborators on checking general quantum
systems, applicable to both physical systems and quantum programs.

This paper summarises the results obtained by the author and his
collaborators in a program logic approach to the verification of quantum
programs, including quantum Hoare logic, invariant generation and termination
analysis for quantum programs. It also introduces the notion of proof outline
and several auxiliary rules for more conveniently reasoning about quantum
programs. Some problems for future research are proposed at the end of the
paper.

We establish several new topological generation results for the quantum
permutation groups $S^+_N$ and the quantum reflection groups $H^{s+}_N$. We use
these results to show that these quantum groups admit sufficiently many "matrix
models". In particular, all of these quantum groups have residually finite
discrete duals (and are, in particular, hyperlinear), and certain "flat" matrix
models for $S_N^+$ are inner faithful.

Construction of good quantum codes via classical codes is an important task
for quantum information and quantum computing. In this work, by virtue of a
decomposition of the defining set of constacyclic codes we have constructed
eight new classes of entanglement-assisted quantum maximum distance separable
codes.

We present a quantum version of a cipher used in cryptography where the
message to be communicated is encoded into the relative phase of a quantum
state using the shared key. The encoded quantum information carrying the
message is actually sent to the recipient over a quantum channel, assuming the
proper secrecy of shared key between peers.

A quantum Loschmidt echo (also referred to as quantum time mirror)
corresponds to an effective time inversion after which the quantum wave
function reverses its previous time evolution and eventually reaches its
initial distribution again. We propose a comparably simple protocol for such an
effective time reversal for ultra-cold atoms in optical lattices which should
be easier to realize experimentally than previous proposals.

We show that the Kac-Paljutkin Hopf algebra appears as a quotient of
$C(SU_{-1}(2))$, which means that the corresponding quantum group $G_{KP}$ can
be regarded as a quantum subgroup of $SU_{-1}(2)$. We combine the fact that
corepresentation category of the Kac-Paljutkin Hopf algebra is a
Tambara-Yamagami tensor category associated with the Krein 4-group and the
method of graded twisting of Hopf algebras, to construct the Hopf
*-homomorphism.

Reliable resource estimation and benchmarking of quantum algorithms is a
critical component of the development cycle of viable quantum applications for
quantum computers of all sizes. Determining critical resource bottlenecks in
algorithms, especially when resource intensive error correction protocols are
required, will be crucial to reduce the cost of implementing viable algorithms
on actual quantum hardware.

Qubit transmission protocols are presently point-to-point, and thus
restrictive in their functionality. A quantum router is necessary for the
quantum Internet to become a reality. We present a quantum router design based
on teleportation, as well as mechanisms for entangled pair management. The
prototype was validated using a quantum simulator.

Inspired by a recent classical distribution-free junta tester by Chen, Liu,
Serverdio, Sheng, and Xie (STOC'18), we construct a quantum tester for the same
problem with complexity $O(k/\varepsilon)$, which constitutes a quadratic
improvement.
  We also prove that there is no efficient quantum algorithm for this problem
using quantum examples as opposed to quantum membership queries.
  This result was obtained independently from the $\tilde O(k/\varepsilon)$
algorithm for this problem by Bshouty.

We show that the C*-algebras associated with synchronous games give rise to
certain quantum families of maps between the input and output sets of the game.
In particular situations (e.g. for graph endomorphism games) these quantum
families have a natural quantum semigroup structure and if the condition of
preservation of a natural state is added, they are in fact compact quantum
groups.

In quantum information theory, it is important to find modulations with low
information loss for noisy channels. In this paper, using the quantum dynamical
entropy and the quantum dynamical mutual entropy, we investigate the
transmission efficiency of two quantum modulators through attenuation channels.

Creating quantum algorithms is a difficult task, especially for computer
scientist not used to quantum computing. But quantum algorithms often use
similar elements. Thus, these elements provide proven solutions to recurring
problems, i.e. a pattern language. Sketching such a language is a step towards
establishing a software engineering discipline of quantum algorithms.

The quantum flag manifold ${SU_q(3)/\mathbb{T}^2}$ is interpreted as a
noncommutative bundle over the quantum complex projective plane with the
quantum or Podle\'s sphere as a fibre. A connection arising from the
(associated) quantum principal $U_q(2)$-bundle is described.

In this paper we make an extensive description of quantum non-locality, one
of the most intriguing and fascinating facets of quantum mechanics. After a
general presentation of several studies on this subject, we consider if quantum
non-locality, and the friction it carries with special relativity, can
eventually find a "solution" by considering higher dimensional spaces.

We use one photon to simulate an n-qubit quantum system for the first time.
We propose a new scheme to realize universal quantum computation in polynomial
time O(n^5). A generating set of gates can be realized with high accuracy in
the lab. We conclude that photonic quantum computation is one of the promising
approaches to universal quantum computation.

We show that the local and deterministic mode of description is not only in
conflict with the quantum theory, but also with relativity. We argue that
elementary relativistic properties of spacetime lead to the emergence of a
non-deterministic quantum-mechanical picture involving quantum superpositions
and complex probability amplitudes.

Generalised quantum determinantal rings are the analogue in quantum matrices
of Schubert varieties. Maximal orders are the noncommutative version of
integrally closed rings. In this paper, we show that generalised quantum
determinantal rings are maximal orders. The cornerstone of the proof is a
description of generalised quantum determinantal rings, up to a localisation,
as skew polynomial extensions.

We introduce the dynamical quantum Pfaffian on the dynamical quantum general
linear group and prove its fundamental transformation identity. Hyper quantum
dynamical Pfaffian is also introduced and formulas connecting them are given.

Quantum computers are projected to handle the Gibbs sampling and the related
inference on Markov networks effectively. Apart from noting the background
information useful for those starting the explorations in this important thread
of Quantum Machine Learning, we capture some results and observations obtained
through extensive simulations with two popular paradigms of sampling based on
Quantum Annealing and Quantum Approximate Optimization Algorithm.

We analyze 3,171 US common stocks to create an efficient portfolio based on
the Chicago Quantum Net Score (CQNS) and portfolio optimization. We begin with
classical solvers and incorporate quantum annealing. We add a simulated
bifurcator as a new classical solver and the new D-Wave Advantage(TM) quantum
annealing computer as our new quantum solver.

We develop a heuristic graph coloring approximation algorithm that uses the
D-Wave 2X as an independent set sampler and evaluate its performance against a
fully classical implementation. A randomly generated set of small but hard
graph instances serves as our test set. Our performance analysis suggests
limited quantum advantage in the hybrid quantum-classical algorithm. The
quantum edge holds over multiple metrics and suggests that graph problem
applications are a good fit for quantum annealers.

In this work, we introduce the concept of the fractional quantum heat engine.
We examine the space-fractional quantum Szilard heat engine as an example to
show that the space-fractional quantum heat engines can produce higher
efficiency than the conventional quantum heat engines.

Optimized quantum $f$-divergence was first introduced by Wilde in
\cite{Wil18}. Wilde raised the question of whether the monotonicity of
optimized quantum $f$-divergence can be generalized to maps that are not
quantum channels. We answer this question by generalizing the monotonicity of
optimized quantum $f$-divergences to positive trace preserving maps satisfying
a Schwarz inequality.

We introduce qprof, a new and extensible quantum program profiler able to
generate profiling reports of various quantum circuits. We describe the
internal structure and working of qprof and provide three practical examples on
practical quantum circuits with increasing complexity. This tool will allow
researchers to visualise their quantum implementation in a different way and
reliably localise the bottlenecks for efficient code optimisation.

We present a scheme for the charging of a quantum battery based on the
dynamics of an open quantum system undergoing coherent quantum squeezing and
affected by an incoherent squeezed thermal bath. We show that quantum
coherence, as instigated by the application of coherent squeezing, are key in
the determination of the performance of the charging process, which is
efficiency-enhanced at low environmental temperature and under a strong
squeezed driving.

Quantum synchronizable codes (QSCs) are special quantum error-correcting
codes which can be used to correct the effects of quantum noise on qubits and
misalignment in block synchronization. In this paper, a new class of quantum
synchronizable codes of length $2^n$ are constructed by using the cyclotomic
cosets, whose synchronization capabilities always reach the upper bound $2^n$.

Quantum information contained in single-particle states can be masked by
mapping them to entangled states. In this paper, we consider entanglement
swapping under the masking of quantum information. Our work can pave the way
for developing the applications of quantum information masking schemes in
entanglement-swappingbased quantum cryptography.

In this paper, we show that it is possible to have pure quantum gravastar
solution to the quantum improved Einstein equations. Such an object is
essentially a gravastar in which the thin layer of matter is replaced by
quantum effects. The metric of a pure quantum gravastar is obtained and its
stability is discussed.

Time in quantum gravity is not a well-defined notion, despite its central
role in the very definition of dynamics. Using the formalism of quantum
geometrodynamics, we shortly review the problem and illustrate it with two
proposed solutions. Our main application is quantum cosmology -- the
application of quantum gravity to the Universe as a whole.

A modern computer system, based on the von Neumann architecture, is a
complicated system with several interactive modular parts. Quantum computing,
as the most generic usage of quantum information, follows a hybrid architecture
so far, namely, quantum algorithms are stored and controlled classically, and
mainly the executions of them are quantum, leading to the so-called quantum
processing units. Such a quantum-classical hybrid is constrained by its
classical ingredients, and cannot reveal the computational power of a fully
quantum computer system as conceived from the beginning of the field. Recently,
the nature of quantum information has been further recognized, such as the
no-programming and no-control theorems, and the unifying understandings of
quantum algorithms and computing models. As a result, in this work we propose a
model of universal quantum computer system, the quantum version of the von
Neumann architecture. It uses ebits (i.e., Bell states) as elements of the
quantum memory unit, and qubits as elements of the quantum control unit and
processing unit. As a digital quantum system, its global configurations can be
viewed as tensor-network states. Its universality is proved by the capability
to execute quantum algorithms based on a program composition scheme via a
universal quantum gate teleportation. It is also protected by the uncertainty
principle, the fundamental law of quantum information, making it quantum-secure
distinct from the classical case. In particular, we introduce a few variants of
quantum circuits, including the tailed, nested, and topological ones, to
characterize the roles of quantum memory and control, which could also be of
independent interest in other contexts. In all, our primary study demonstrates
the manifold power of quantum information and paves the way for the creation of
quantum computer systems in the near future.

Generalized quantum cluster algebras introduced in [1] are quantum
deformation of generalized cluster algebras of geometric types. In this paper,
we prove that the Laurent phenomenon holds in these generalized quantum cluster
algebras. We also show that upper bounds coincide with the corresponding
generalized quantum upper cluster algebras under the "coprimality" condition.

We find that the set of local quantum operations and classical communication
for multiparty quantum states can be considered as analogous to online meetings
between members of a population. Moreover, monotonicity properties of quantum
and classical correlations of quantum states of shared systems also carry over
to relations between members of the population, giving rise to what may be
termed as a second law of anthropology.

Based on the concepts of the quantum field theory of virtual photons as
quanta of electromagnetic interaction, we discuss the physical content of the
phenomena underlying the principle of quantum uncertainties. We consider the
features of the uncertainty relations and the properties of the elementary
particles (electrons, protons, etc.) under the conditions of the formation of
quantum bound states at atomic and subatomic distances.

In this paper, we prove a quantum version of the EL Theorem. It states that
non-exotic projections of large rank must have simple quantum states in their
images. A consequence to this is there is no way to communicate a quantum
source with corresponding large enough von Neumann entropy without using simple
quantum states.

We prove an entropic uncertainty relation for two quantum channels, extending
the work of Frank and Lieb for quantum measurements. This is obtained via a
generalized strong super-additivity (SSA) of quantum entropy. Motivated by
Petz's algebraic SSA inequality, we also obtain a generalized SSA for quantum
relative entropy. As a special case, it gives an improved data processing
inequality.

In recent results, it has been proven that all sampling methods produce
outliers. In this paper, we extend these results to quantum information theory.
Projectors of large rank must contain pure quantum states in their images that
are outlying states. Otherwise, the projectors are exotic, in that they have
high mutual information with the halting sequence. Thus quantum coding schemes
that use projections, such as Schumacher compression, must communicate using
outlier quantum states.

A two-terminal quantum spin-Hall heat engine and refrigerator with embedded
Majorana bound states (MBS) are analyzed for optimality in thermoelectric
performance. The occurrence of MBS can enhance the performance to rival, as
well as outperform, some modern nanoscale quantum heat engines and quantum
refrigerators. The optimal performance of this MBS quantum heat engine and
quantum refrigerator can be further enhanced by an Aharonov-Bohm flux.

We extend the idea of classical cyclic redundancy check codes to quantum
cyclic redundancy check codes. This allows us to construct codes quantum
stabiliser codes which can correct burst errors where the burst length attains
the quantum Reiger bound. We then consider a certain family of quantum cyclic
redundancy check codes for which we present a fast linear time decoding
algorithm.

A Jastrow--Gutzwiller operator adds many-body correlations to a quantum
state. However, the operator is non-unitary, making it difficult to implement
directly on a quantum computer. We present a novel implementation of the
Jastrow--Gutzwiller operator using the cascaded variational quantum eigensolver
algorithm. We demonstrate the method on IBM Q Lagos for a Hubbard model.

We introduce systematic protocols to perform stabilizer testing for quantum
states and gates. These protocols are based on quantum convolutions and
swap-tests, realized by quantum circuits that implement the quantum convolution
for both qubit and qudit systems. We also introduce ''magic entropy'' to
quantify magic in quantum states and gates, in a way which may be measurable
experimentally.

We realize the quantum loop groups and shifted quantum loop groups of
arbitrary types, possibly non symmetric, using critical K-theory. This
generalizes the Nakajima construction of symmetric quantum loop groups via
quiver varieties to non symmetric types. We also give a new geometric
construction of some simple modules of both quantum loop groups and shifted
quantum loop groups.

We introduce the quantum-house effect, a non-local quantum phenomenon which
goes against classical intuition. We show how the effect can be achieved with
any bipartite quantum state where neither subsystem is in a pure state. Besides
its theoretical description, the quantum-house effect is also demonstrated on
SpinQ Gemini, a 2-qubit liquid-state NMR desktop quantum computer.

We formulate a notion of the quantum automorphism groups of $2$-graphs. We
show that two isomorphic $2$-graphs have isomorphic quantum automorphism groups
making the notion well-defined. We compute the quantum automorphism groups of a
few $2$-graphs. It is observed that quantum automorphism group of a $1$-graph
can be realized as the quantum automorphism group of a $2$-graph.

In this expository paper we present a brief introduction to the geometrical
modeling of some quantum computing problems. After a brief introduction to
establish the terminology, we focus on quantum information geometry and
ZX-calculus, establishing a connection between quantum computing questions and
quantum groups, i.e. Hopf algebras.

This article is a continuation of "Quantum symmetry in multigraphs (part I)".
In this article, we give an explicit construction of a non-Bichon type
co-action on a multigraph that is, it preserves quantum symmetry of (V,E) in
our sense but not always in Bichon's sense. This construction itself is
motivated from automorphisms of quantum graphs.

We study a phenomenon occuring in various areas of quantum physics, in which
an observable density (such as an energy density) which is classically
pointwise nonnegative may assume arbitrarily negative expectation values after
quantisation, even though the spatially integrated density remains nonnegative.
Two prominent examples which have previously been studied are the energy
density (in quantum field theory) and the probability flux of rightwards-moving
particles (in quantum mechanics). However, in the quantum field context, it has
been shown that the magnitude and space-time extension of negative energy
densities are not arbitrary, but restricted by relations which have come to be
known as `quantum inequalities'. In the present work, we explore the extent to
which such quantum inequalities hold for typical quantum mechanical systems. We
derive quantum inequalities of two types. The first are `kinematical' quantum
inequalities where spatially averaged densities are shown to be bounded below.
Such quantum inequalities are directly related to Garding inequalities. The
second type are `dynamical' quantum inequalities where one obtains bounds from
below on temporally averaged densities. We derive such quantum inequalities in
the case of the energy density in general quantum mechanical systems having
suitable decay properties on the negative spectral axis of the total energy.
Furthermore, we obtain explicit numerical values for the quantum inequalities
on the one-dimensional current density, using various spatial averaging weight
functions. We also improve the numerical value of the related `backflow
constant' previously investigated by Bracken and Melloy. In many cases our
numerical results are controlled by rigorous error estimates.

We present an analysis of quantum mechanics and its problems and paradoxes
taking into account the results that have been obtained during the last two
decades by investigations in the field of `quantum structures research'. We
concentrate mostly on the results of our group FUND at Brussels Free
University. By means of a spin 1/2 model where the quantum probability is
generated by the presence of fluctuations on the interactions between measuring
apparatus and physical system, we show that the quantum structure can find its
origin in the presence of these fluctuations. This appraoch, that we have
called the 'hidden measurement approach', makes it possible to construct
systems that are in between quantum and classical. We show that two of the
traditional axioms of quantum axiomatics are not satisfied for these 'in
between quantum and classical' situations, and how this structural shortcoming
of standard quantum mechanics is at the origin of most of the quantum
paradoxes. We show that in this approach the EPR paradox identifies a genuine
incompleteness of standard quantum mechanics, however not an incompleteness
that means the lacking of hidden variables, but an incompleteness pointing at
the impossibility for standard quantum mechanics to describe separated quantum
systems. We indicate in which way, by redefining the meaning of density states,
standard quantum mechanics can be completed. We put forward in which way the
axiomatic approach to quantum mechanics can be compared to the traditional
axiomatic approach to relativity theory, and how this might lead to studying
another road to unification of both theories.

The class MA consists of languages that can be efficiently verified by
classical probabilistic verifiers using a single classical certificate, and the
class QMA consists of languages that can be efficiently verified by quantum
verifiers using a single quantum certificate. Suppose that a verifier receives
not only one but multiple certificates. In the classical setting, it is obvious
that a classical verifier with multiple classical certificates is essentially
the same with the one with a single classical certificate. However, in the
quantum setting where a quantum verifier is given a set of quantum certificates
in tensor product form (i.e. each quantum certificate is not entangled with
others), the situation is different, because the quantum verifier might utilize
the structure of the tensor product form. This suggests a possibility of
another hierarchy of complexity classes, namely the QMA hierarchy. From this
point of view, we extend the definition of QMA to QMA(k) for the case quantum
verifiers use k quantum certificates, and analyze the properties of QMA(k).
  To compare the power of QMA(2) with that of QMA(1) = QMA, we show one
interesting property of ``quantum indistinguishability''. This gives a strong
evidence that QMA(2) is more powerful than QMA(1). Furthermore, we show that,
for any fixed positive integer $k \geq 2$, if a language L has a one-sided
bounded error QMA(k) protocol with a quantum verifier using k quantum
certificates, L necessarily has a one-sided bounded error QMA(2) protocol with
a quantum verifier using only two quantum certificates.

Loop is a powerful program construct in classical computation, but its power
is still not exploited fully in quantum computation. The exploitation of such
power definitely requires a deep understanding of the mechanism of quantum loop
programs. In this paper, we introduce a general scheme of quantum loops and
describe its computational process. The notions of termination and almost
termination are proposed for quantum loops, and the function computed by a
quantum loop is defined. To show their expressive power, quantum loops are
applied in describing quantum walks. Necessary and sufficient conditions for
termination and almost termination of a general quantum loop on any mixed input
state are presented. A quantum loop is said to be (almost) terminating if it
(almost) terminates on any input state. We show that a quantum loop is almost
terminating if and only if it is uniformly almost terminating. It is observed
that a small disturbance either on the unitary transformation in the loop body
or on the measurement in the loop guard can make any quantum loop (almost)
terminating. Moreover, a representation of the function computed by a quantum
loop is given in terms of finite summations of matrices. To illustrate the
notions and results obtained in this paper, two simplest classes of quantum
loop programs, one qubit quantum loops, and two qubit quantum loops defined by
controlled gates, are carefully examined.

A novel algebraic topology approach to supersymmetry (SUSY) and symmetry
breaking in quantum field and quantum gravity theories is presented with a view
to developing a wide range of physical applications. These include: controlled
nuclear fusion and other nuclear reaction studies in quantum chromodynamics,
nonlinear physics at high energy densities, dynamic Jahn-Teller effects,
superfluidity, high temperature superconductors, multiple scattering by
molecular systems, molecular or atomic paracrystal structures, nanomaterials,
ferromagnetism in glassy materials, spin glasses, quantum phase transitions and
supergravity. This approach requires a unified conceptual framework that
utilizes extended symmetries and quantum groupoid, algebroid and functorial
representations of non-Abelian higher dimensional structures pertinent to
quantized spacetime topology and state space geometry of quantum operator
algebras. Fourier transforms, generalized Fourier-Stieltjes transforms, and
duality relations link, respectively, the quantum groups and quantum groupoids
with their dual algebraic structures; quantum double constructions are also
discussed in this context in relation to quasi-triangular, quasi-Hopf algebras,
bialgebroids, Grassmann-Hopf algebras and higher dimensional algebra. On the
one hand, this quantum algebraic approach is known to provide solutions to the
quantum Yang-Baxter equation. On the other hand, our novel approach to extended
quantum symmetries and their associated representations is shown to be relevant
to locally covariant general relativity theories that are consistent with
either nonlocal quantum field theories or local bosonic (spin) models with the
extended quantum symmetry of entangled, 'string-net condensed' (ground) states.

The dynamic capacity theorem characterizes the reliable communication rates
of a quantum channel when combined with the noiseless resources of classical
communication, quantum communication, and entanglement. In prior work, we
proved the converse part of this theorem by making contact with many previous
results in the quantum Shannon theory literature. In this work, we prove the
theorem with an "ab initio" approach, using only the most basic tools in the
quantum information theorist's toolkit: the Alicki-Fannes' inequality, the
chain rule for quantum mutual information, elementary properties of quantum
entropy, and the quantum data processing inequality. The result is a simplified
proof of the theorem that should be more accessible to those unfamiliar with
the quantum Shannon theory literature. We also demonstrate that the "quantum
dynamic capacity formula" characterizes the Pareto optimal trade-off surface
for the full dynamic capacity region. Additivity of this formula simplifies the
computation of the trade-off surface, and we prove that its additivity holds
for the quantum Hadamard channels and the quantum erasure channel. We then
determine exact expressions for and plot the dynamic capacity region of the
quantum dephasing channel, an example from the Hadamard class, and the quantum
erasure channel.

Theory of quantum games is relatively new to the literature and its
applications to various areas of research are being explored. It is a novel
interpretation of strategies and decisions in quantum domain. In the earlier
work on quantum games considerable attention was given to the resolution of
dilemmas present in corresponding classical games. Two separate quantum schemes
were presented by Eisert et al. and Marinatto and Weber to resolve dilemmas in
Prisoners' Dilemma and Battle of Sexes games respectively. However for the
latter scheme it was argued that dilemma was not resolved. We have modified the
quantization scheme of Marinatto and Weber to resolve the dilemma. We have
developed a generalized quantization scheme for two person non-zero sum games
which reduces to the existing schemes under certain conditions. Applications of
this generalized quantization scheme to quantum information theory are studied.
Measurement being ubiquitous in quantum mechanics can not be ignored in quantum
games. With the help of generalized quantization scheme we have analyzed the
effects of measurement on quantum games. Qubits are the important elements for
playing quantum games and are generally prone to decoherence due to their
interactions with environment. An analysis of quantum games in presence of
quantum correlated noise is performed in the context of generalized
quantization scheme. Quantum key distribution is one of the key issues of
quantum information theory for the purpose of secure communication. Using
mathematical framework of generalized quantization scheme we have proposed a
protocol for quantum key distribution and a technique for quantum state
tomography.

Quantum superposition and entanglement of physical states can be harnessed to
solve some problems which are intractable on a classical computer implementing
binary logic. Several algorithms have been proposed to utilize the quantum
nature of physical states and solve important problems. For example, Shor's
quantum algorithm is extremely important in the field of cryptography since it
factors large numbers exponentially faster than any known classical algorithm.
Another celebrated example is the Grovers quantum algorithm. These algorithms
can only be implemented on a quantum computer which operates on quantum bits
(qubits). Rudimentary implementations of quantum processor have already been
achieved through linear optical components, ion traps, NMR etc. However
demonstration of a solid state quantum processor had been elusive till DiCarlo
et al demonstrated two qubit algorithms in superconducting quantum processor.
Though this has been a significant step, scalable semiconductor based room
temperature quantum computing is yet to be found. Such a technology could
benefit from the vast experience of the semiconductor industry. Hence, here we
present a reconfigurable semiconductor quantum logic device (SQuaLD) which
operates on the position and spin degree of freedom of the electrons in the
device. Based on a few recent experiments, we believe SQuaLD is experimentally
feasible. Moreover, using a well known quantum simulation method, we show that
quantum algorithms (such as Deutsch Jozsa, Grover search) as well as universal
classical logic operations (such as NAND gate) can be implemented in SQuaLD.
Thus, we argue that SQuaLD is a strong candidate for the future quantum logic
processor since it also satisfies the DiVincenzo criteria for quantum logic
application as well as the five essential characteristics for classical logic
applications.

Quantum teleportation and quantum memory are two crucial elements for
large-scale quantum networks. With the help of prior distributed entanglement
as a "quantum channel", quantum teleportation provides an intriguing means to
faithfully transfer quantum states among distant locations without actual
transmission of the physical carriers. Quantum memory enables controlled
storage and retrieval of fast-flying photonic quantum bits with stationary
matter systems, which is essential to achieve the scalability required for
large-scale quantum networks. Combining these two capabilities, here we realize
quantum teleportation between two remote atomic-ensemble quantum memory nodes,
each composed of 100 million rubidium atoms and connected by a 150-meter
optical fiber. The spinwave state of one atomic ensemble is mapped to a
propagating photon, and subjected to Bell-state measurements with another
single photon that is entangled with the spinwave state of the other ensemble.
Two-photon detection events herald the success of teleportation with an average
fidelity of 88(7)%. Besides its fundamental interest as the first teleportation
between two remote macroscopic objects, our technique may be useful for quantum
information transfer between different nodes in quantum networks and
distributed quantum computing.

Transmission of quantum entanglement will play a crucial role in future
networks and long-distance quantum communications. Quantum Key Distribution,
the working mechanism of quantum repeaters and the various quantum
communication protocols are all based on quantum entanglement. On the other
hand, quantum entanglement is extremely fragile and sensitive to the noise of
the communication channel over which it has been transmitted. To share
entanglement between distant points, high fidelity quantum channels are needed.
In practice, these communication links are noisy, which makes it impossible or
extremely difficult and expensive to distribute entanglement. In this work we
first show that quantum entanglement can be generated by a new idea, exploiting
the most natural effect of the communication channels: the noise itself of the
link. We prove that the noise transformation of quantum channels that are not
able to transmit quantum entanglement can be used to generate distillable
(useable) entanglement from classically correlated input. We call this new
phenomenon the Correlation Conversion property (CC-property) of quantum
channels. The proposed solution does not require any non-local operation or
local measurement by the parties, only the use of standard quantum channels.
Our results have implications and consequences for the future of quantum
communications, and for global-scale quantum communication networks. The
discovery also revealed that entanglement generation by local operations is
possible.

The unique capability of quantum mechanics to evolve alternative
possibilities in parallel is appealing and over the years a number of quantum
algorithms have been developed offering great computational benefits. Systems
coupled to the environment lose quantum coherence quickly and realization of
schemes based on unitarity might be impossible. Recent discovery of room
temperature quantum coherence in light harvesting complexes opens up new
possibilities to borrow concepts from biology to use quantum effects for
computational purposes. While it has been conjectured that light harvesting
complexes such as the Fenna-Matthews-Olson (FMO) complex in the green sulfur
bacteria performs an efficient quantum search similar to the quantum Grover's
algorithm the analogy has yet to be established.
  In this work we show that quantum dissipation plays an essential role in the
quantum search performed in the FMO complex and it is fundamentally different
from known algorithms. In the FMO complex not just the optimal level of phase
breaking is present to avoid both quantum localization and Zeno trapping but it
can harness quantum dissipation as well to speed the process even further up.
With detailed quantum calculations taking into account both phase breaking and
quantum dissipation we show that the design of the FMO complex has been
evolutionarily optimized and works faster than pure quantum or
classical-stochastic algorithms. Inspired by the findings we introduce a new
computational concept based on decoherent quantum evolution. While it is
inspired by light harvesting systems, the new computational devices can also be
realized on different material basis opening new magnitude scales for
miniaturization and speed.

Characterizing complex quantum systems is a vital task in quantum information
science. Quantum tomography, the standard tool used for this purpose, uses a
well-designed measurement record to reconstruct quantum states and processes.
It is, however, notoriously inefficient. Recently, the classical signal
reconstruction technique known as "compressed sensing" has been ported to
quantum information science to overcome this challenge: accurate tomography can
be achieved with substantially fewer measurement settings, thereby greatly
enhancing the efficiency of quantum tomography. Here we show that compressed
sensing tomography of quantum systems is essentially guaranteed by a special
property of quantum mechanics itself---that the mathematical objects that
describe the system in quantum mechanics are matrices with nonnegative
eigenvalues. This result has an impact on the way quantum tomography is
understood and implemented. In particular, it implies that the information
obtained about a quantum system through compressed sensing methods exhibits a
new sense of "informational completeness." This has important consequences on
the efficiency of data taking for quantum tomography, and enables us to
construct informationally complete measurements that are robust to noise and
modeling errors. Moreover, our result shows that one can expand the numerical
tool-box used in quantum tomography and employ highly efficient algorithms
developed to handle large dimensional matrices on a large dimensional Hilbert
space. While we mainly present our results in the context of quantum
tomography, they apply to the general case of positive semidefinite matrix
recovery.

The fidelity function of quantum states have been widely used in quantum
information science and frequently arises in the quantification of optimal
performances for the estimation and distinguish of quantum states. A fidelity
function on quantum channel is expected to have same wide applications in
quantum information science. In this paper we propose a fidelity function on
quantum channels and show that various distance measures on quantum channels
can be obtained from this fidelity function, for example the Bures angle and
the Bures distance can be extended to quantum channels via this fidelity
function. We then show that the distances between quantum channels lead
naturally to a new Fisher information which quantifies the ultimate precision
limit in quantum metrology, the ultimate precision limit can thus be seen as a
manifestation of the distances between quantum channels. We also show that the
fidelity on quantum channels provides a unified framework for perfect quantum
channel discrimination and quantum metrology, in particular we show that the
minimum number of uses needed for perfect channel discrimination is exactly the
counterpart of the precision limit in quantum metrology, and various useful
lower bounds for the minimum number of uses needed for perfect channel
discrimination can be obtained via this connection.

We consider quantum and private communications assisted by repeaters, from
the basic scenario of a single repeater chain to the general case of an
arbitrarily-complex quantum network, where systems may be routed through single
or multiple paths. In this context, we investigate the ultimate rates at which
two end-parties may transmit quantum information, distribute entanglement, or
generate secret keys. These end-to-end capacities are defined by optimizing
over the most general adaptive protocols that are allowed by quantum mechanics.
Combining techniques from quantum information and classical network theory, we
derive single-letter upper bounds for the end-to-end capacities in repeater
chains and quantum networks connected by arbitrary quantum channels,
establishing exact formulas under basic decoherence models, including bosonic
lossy channels, quantum-limited amplifiers, dephasing and erasure channels. For
the converse part, we adopt a teleportation-inspired simulation of a quantum
network which leads to upper bounds in terms of the relative entropy of
entanglement. For the lower bounds we combine point-to-point quantum protocols
with classical network algorithms. Depending on the type of routing (single or
multiple), optimal strategies corresponds to finding the widest path or the
maximum flow in the quantum network. Our theory can also be extended to
simultaneous quantum communication between multiple senders and receivers.

Quantum multi-hop teleportation is important in the field of quantum
communication. In this study, we propose a quantum multi-hop communication
model and a quantum routing protocol with multi-hop teleportation for wireless
mesh backbone networks. Based on an analysis of quantum multi-hop protocols, a
partially entangled Greenberger--Horne--Zeilinger (GHZ) state is selected as
the quantum channel for the proposed protocol. Both quantum and classical
wireless channels exist between two neighboring nodes along the route. With the
proposed routing protocol, quantum information can be transmitted hop by hop
from the source node to the destination node. Based on multi-hop teleportation
based on the partially entangled GHZ state, a quantum route established with
the minimum number of hops. The difference between our routing protocol and the
classical one is that in the former, the processes used to find a quantum route
and establish quantum channel entanglement occur simultaneously. The Bell state
measurement results of each hop are piggybacked to quantum route finding
information. This method reduces the total number of packets and the magnitude
of air interface delay. The deduction of the establishment of a quantum channel
between source and destination is also presented here. The final success
probability of quantum multi-hop teleportation in wireless mesh backbone
networks was simulated and analyzed. Our research shows that quantum multi-hop
teleportation in wireless mesh backbone networks through a partially entangled
GHZ state is feasible.

As the size of quantum systems becomes bigger, more complicated hardware is
required to control these systems. In order to reduce the complexity, I discuss
the amount of parallelism required for a fault-tolerant quantum computer and
what computation speed can be achieved in different architectures. To build a
large-scale quantum computer, one can use architectural principles, from
classical computer architecture, like multiplexing or pipelining. In this
document, a Quantum von Neumann architecture is introduced which uses
specialized hardware for the different tasks of a quantum computer, like
computation or storage. Furthermore, it requires long qubit coherence and the
capability to move quantum information between the different parts of the
quantum computer. As an example, a Quantum von Neumann architecture for trapped
ions is presented which incorporates multiplexing in the memory region for
large-scale quantum computation. To illustrate the capability of this
architecture, a model trapped ion quantum computer based on Quantum von Neumann
architecture, the Quantum 4004, is introduced. Its hardware is optimized for
simplicity and uses the classical Intel 4004 CPU from 1971 as a blueprint. The
Quantum 4004 has only a single processing zone and is structured in 4 qubit
packages. Its quantum memory can store up to 32768 qubit ions and its
computation speed is 10 $\mu$s for single qubit operations and 20 $\mu$s for
two-qubit operations.

Quantum bits have technological imperfections. Additionally, the capacity of
a component that can be implemented feasibly is limited. Therefore, distributed
quantum computation is required to scale up quantum computers.
  This dissertation presents a new quantum computer architecture which takes
into account imperfections, aimed to realize distributed computation by
connecting quantum computers each of which consists of multiple quantum CPUs
and memories. Quantum CPUs employ a quantum error correcting code which has
faster logical gates and quantum memories employ a code which is superior in
space resource requirements.
  This dissertation focuses on quantum error correcting codes, giving a
practical, concrete method for tolerating static losses such as faulty devices
for the surface code. Numerical simulation with practical assumptions showed
that a yield of functional qubits of 90% is marginally capable of building
large-scale systems, by culling the poorer 50% of lattices during
post-fabrication testing. Yield 80% is not usable even when culling 90% of
generated lattices.
  For internal connections in a quantum computer and for connections between
quantum computers, this dissertation gives a fault-tolerant method that bridges
heterogeneous quantum error correcting codes. Numerical simulation showed that
the scheme, which discards any quantum state in which any error is detected,
always achieves an adequate logical error rate regardless of physical error
rates in exchange for increased resource consumption.
  This dissertation gives a new extension of the surface code suitable for
memories. This code is shown to require fewer physical qubits to encode a
logical qubit than conventional codes. This code achieves the reduction of 50%
physical qubits per a logical qubit.
  Collectively, the elements to propose the distributed quantum computer
architecture are brought together.

An approximate exponential quantum projection filtering scheme is developed
for a class of open quantum systems described by Hudson- Parthasarathy quantum
stochastic differential equations, aiming to reduce the computational burden
associated with online calculation of the quantum filter. By using a
differential geometric approach, the quantum trajectory is constrained in a
finite-dimensional differentiable manifold consisting of an unnormalized
exponential family of quantum density operators, and an exponential quantum
projection filter is then formulated as a number of stochastic differential
equations satisfied by the finite-dimensional coordinate system of this
manifold. A convenient design of the differentiable manifold is also presented
through reduction of the local approximation errors, which yields a
simplification of the quantum projection filter equations. It is shown that the
computational cost can be significantly reduced by using the quantum projection
filter instead of the quantum filter. It is also shown that when the quantum
projection filtering approach is applied to a class of open quantum systems
that asymptotically converge to a pure state, the input-to-state stability of
the corresponding exponential quantum projection filter can be established.
Simulation results from an atomic ensemble system example are provided to
illustrate the performance of the projection filtering scheme. It is expected
that the proposed approach can be used in developing more efficient quantum
control methods.

In the past four decades, the notion of quantum polynomial-time computability
has been mathematically modeled by quantum Turing machines as well as quantum
circuits. This paper seeks the third model, which is a quantum analogue of the
schematic (inductive or constructive) definition of (primitive) recursive
functions. For quantum functions mapping finite-dimensional Hilbert spaces to
themselves, we present such a schematic definition, composed of a small set of
initial quantum functions and a few construction rules that dictate how to
build a new quantum function from the existing ones. We prove that our
schematic definition precisely characterizes all functions that can be
computable with high success probabilities on well-formed quantum Turing
machines in polynomial time, or equivalently uniform families of
polynomial-size quantum circuits. Our new, schematic definition is quite simple
and intuitive and, more importantly, it avoids the cumbersome introduction of
the well-formedness condition imposed on a quantum Turing machine model as well
as of the uniformity condition necessary for a quantum circuit model. Our new
approach can further open a door to the descriptional complexity of quantum
functions, to the theory of higher-type quantum functionals, to the development
of new first-order theories for quantum computing, and to the designing of
programming languages for real-life quantum computers.

Quantum mechanics fundamentally forbids deterministic discrimination of
quantum states and processes. However, the ability to optimally distinguish
various classes of quantum data is an important primitive in quantum
information science. In this work, we train near-term quantum circuits to
classify data represented by non-orthogonal quantum probability distributions
using the Adam stochastic optimization algorithm. This is achieved by iterative
interactions of a classical device with a quantum processor to discover the
parameters of an unknown non-unitary quantum circuit. This circuit learns to
simulates the unknown structure of a generalized quantum measurement, or
Positive-Operator-Value-Measure (POVM), that is required to optimally
distinguish possible distributions of quantum inputs. Notably we use universal
circuit topologies, with a theoretically motivated circuit design, which
guarantees that our circuits can in principle learn to perform arbitrary
input-output mappings. Our numerical simulations show that shallow quantum
circuits could be trained to discriminate among various pure and mixed quantum
states exhibiting a trade-off between minimizing erroneous and inconclusive
outcomes with comparable performance to theoretically optimal POVMs. We train
the circuit on different classes of quantum data and evaluate the
generalization error on unseen mixed quantum states. This generalization power
hence distinguishes our work from standard circuit optimization and provides an
example of quantum machine learning for a task that has inherently no classical
analogue.

The quantum Fisher information is of considerable interest not only for
quantum metrology but also because it is a useful entanglement measure for
finite temperature mixed states. In particular, it estimates the degree to
which multipartite entanglement is present. Recent results have related the
quantum Fisher information to experimentally measurable probes. While in
principle possible, a direct evaluation of the quantum Fisher information at
finite temperatures is technically challenging and here we show that a simple
estimate can be obtained for materials where the single mode approximation is
valid. We focus on the $S=1$ anti-ferromagnetic Heisenberg model with uniaxial
anisotropy. Quantum Monte Carlo thechniques are used to determine low
temperature correlations from which the quantum Fisher information can be
estimated within the single mode approximation. The quantum Fisher information
is compared to the quantum variance for the staggered magnetization operators
in the transverse direction and inequalities between the quantum Fisher
information, the quantum variance and the full variance are discussed. Both the
quantum and full variance as well as the quantum Fisher information are
examined at finite temperatures above the isotropic point and at the quantum
critical point for the Haldane-N\'{e}el transtion. A finite size scaling study
of the quantum Fisher information is performed at the quantum critical point
and used to confirm the Ising nature of the Haldane-N\'{e}el transition.

To achieve universal quantum computation via general fault-tolerant schemes,
stabilizer operations must be supplemented with other non-stabilizer quantum
resources. Motivated by this necessity, we develop a resource theory for magic
quantum channels to characterize and quantify the quantum "magic" or
non-stabilizerness of noisy quantum circuits. For qudit quantum computing with
odd dimension $d$, it is known that quantum states with non-negative Wigner
function can be efficiently simulated classically. First, inspired by this
observation, we introduce a resource theory based on completely
positive-Wigner-preserving quantum operations as free operations, and we show
that they can be efficiently simulated via a classical algorithm. Second, we
introduce two efficiently computable magic measures for quantum channels,
called the mana and thauma of a quantum channel. As applications, we show that
these measures not only provide fundamental limits on the distillable magic of
quantum channels, but they also lead to lower bounds for the task of
synthesizing non-Clifford gates. Third, we propose a classical algorithm for
simulating noisy quantum circuits, whose sample complexity can be quantified by
the mana of a quantum channel. We further show that this algorithm can
outperform another approach for simulating noisy quantum circuits, based on
channel robustness. Finally, we explore the threshold of non-stabilizerness for
basic quantum circuits under depolarizing noise.

Quantum algorithms for Noisy Intermediate-Scale Quantum (NISQ) machines have
recently emerged as new promising routes towards demonstrating near-term
quantum advantage (or supremacy) over classical systems. In these systems
samples are typically drawn from probability distributions which --- under
plausible complexity-theoretic conjectures --- cannot be efficiently generated
classically. Rather than first define a physical system and then determine
computational features of the output state, we ask the converse question: given
direct access to the quantum state, what features of the generating system can
we efficiently learn? In this work we introduce the Variational Quantum
Unsampling (VQU) protocol, a nonlinear quantum neural network approach for
verification and inference of near-term quantum circuits outputs. In our
approach one can variationally train a quantum operation to unravel the action
of an unknown unitary on a known input state; essentially learning the inverse
of the black-box quantum dynamics. While the principle of our approach is
platform independent, its implementation will depend on the unique architecture
of a specific quantum processor. Here, we experimentally demonstrate the VQU
protocol on a quantum photonic processor. Alongside quantum verification, our
protocol has broad applications; including optimal quantum measurement and
tomography, quantum sensing and imaging, and ansatz validation.

The quantum capacity of a noisy quantum channel determines the maximal rate
at which we can code reliably over asymptotically many uses of the channel, and
it characterizes the channel's ultimate ability to transmit quantum information
coherently. In this paper, we derive single-letter upper bounds on the quantum
and private capacities of quantum channels. The quantum capacity of a quantum
channel is always no larger than the quantum capacity of its extended channels,
since the extensions of the channel can be considered as assistance from the
environment. By optimizing the parametrized extended channels with specific
structures such as the flag structure, we obtain new upper bounds on the
quantum capacity of the original quantum channel. Furthermore, we extend our
approach to estimating the fundamental limits of private communication and
one-way entanglement distillation. As notable applications, we establish
improved upper bounds to the quantum and private capacities for fundamental
quantum channels of interest in quantum information, some of which are also the
sources of noise in superconducting quantum computing. In particular, our upper
bounds on the quantum capacities of the depolarizing channel and the
generalized amplitude damping channel are strictly better than previously
best-known bounds for certain regimes.

Quantum measurement is a basic tool to manifest intrinsic quantum effects
from fundamental tests to quantum information applications. While a measurement
is typically performed to gain information on a quantum state, its role in
quantum technology is indeed manifold. For instance, quantum measurement is a
crucial process element in measurement-based quantum computation. It is also
used to detect and correct errors thereby protecting quantum information in
error-correcting frameworks. It is therefore important to fully characterize
the roles of quantum measurement encompassing information gain, state
disturbance and reversibility, together with their fundamental relations.
Numerous efforts have been made to obtain the trade-off between information
gain and state disturbance, which becomes a practical basis for secure
information processing. However, a complete information balance is necessary to
include the reversibility of quantum measurement, which constitutes an integral
part of practical quantum information processing. We here establish all pairs
of trade-off relations involving information gain, disturbance, and
reversibility, and crucially the one among all of them together. By doing so,
we show that the reversibility plays a vital role in completing the information
balance. Remarkably, our result can be interpreted as an
information-conservation law of quantum measurement in a nontrivial form. We
completely identify the conditions for optimal measurements that satisfy the
conservation for each tradeoff relation with their potential applications. Our
work can provide a useful guideline for designing a quantum measurement in
accordance with the aims of quantum information processors.

One of the fundamental features of quantum mechanics is the superposition
principle, a manifestation of which is embodied in quantum coherence. Coherence
of a quantum state is invariably defined with respect to a preferred set of
pointer states, and there exist quantum coherence measures with respect to
deterministically as well as probabilistically distinguishable sets of quantum
state vectors. Here we study the resource theory of quantum coherence with
respect to an arbitrary set of quantum state vectors, that may not even be
probabilistically distinguishable. Geometrically, a probabilistically
indistinguishable set of quantum state vectors forms a linearly dependent set.
We find the free states of the resource theory, and analyze the corresponding
free operations, obtaining a necessary condition for an arbitrary quantum
operation to be free. We identify a class of measures of the quantum coherence,
and in particular establish a monotonicity property of the measures. We find a
connection of an arbitrary set of quantum state vectors with positive operator
valued measurements with respect to the resource theory being considered, which
paves the way for an alternate definition of the free states. We notice that
the resource theory of magic can be looked upon as a resource theory of quantum
coherence with respect to a set of quantum state vectors that are
probabilistically indistinguishable. We subsequently examine the wave-particle
duality in a double-slit set-up in which superposition of probabilistically
indistinguishable quantum state vectors is possible. Specifically, we report a
complementary relation between quantum coherence and path distinguishability in
such a set-up.

Encoding classical data into quantum states is considered a quantum feature
map to map classical data into a quantum Hilbert space. This feature map
provides opportunities to incorporate quantum advantages into machine learning
algorithms to be performed on near-term intermediate-scale quantum computers.
The crucial idea is using the quantum Hilbert space as a quantum-enhanced
feature space in machine learning models. While the quantum feature map has
demonstrated its capability when combined with linear classification models in
some specific applications, its expressive power from the theoretical
perspective remains unknown. We prove that the machine learning models induced
from the quantum-enhanced feature space are universal approximators of
continuous functions under typical quantum feature maps. We also study the
capability of quantum feature maps in the classification of disjoint regions.
Our work enables an important theoretical analysis to ensure that machine
learning algorithms based on quantum feature maps can handle a broad class of
machine learning tasks. In light of this, one can design a quantum machine
learning model with more powerful expressivity.

Quantum computation has been growing rapidly in both theory and experiments.
In particular, quantum computing devices with a large number of qubits have
been developed by IBM, Google, IonQ, and others. The current quantum computing
devices are noisy intermediate-scale quantum $($NISQ$)$ devices, and so
approaches to validate quantum processing on these quantum devices are needed.
One of the most common ways of validation for an n-qubit quantum system is
quantum tomography, which tries to reconstruct a quantum system's density
matrix by a complete set of observables. However, the inherent noise in the
quantum systems and the intrinsic limitations poses a critical challenge to
precisely know the actual measurement operators which make quantum tomography
impractical in experiments. Here, we propose an alternative approach to quantum
tomography, based on the maximal information entropy, that can predict the
values of unknown observables based on the available mean measurement data.
This can then be used to reconstruct the density matrix with high fidelity even
though the results for some observables are missing. Of additional contexts, a
practical approach to the inference of the quantum mechanical state using only
partial information is also needed.

We present the novel approach to mathematical modeling of information
processes in biosystems. It explores the mathematical formalism and methodology
of quantum theory, especially quantum measurement theory. This approach is
known as {\it quantum-like} and it should be distinguished from study of
genuine quantum physical processes in biosystems (quantum biophysics, quantum
cognition). It is based on quantum information representation of biosystem's
state and modeling its dynamics in the framework of theory of open quantum
systems. This paper starts with the non-physicist friendly presentation of
quantum measurement theory, from the original von Neumann formulation to modern
theory of quantum instruments. Then, latter is applied to model combinations of
cognitive effects and gene regulation of glucose/lactose metabolism in
Escherichia coli bacterium. The most general construction of quantum
instruments is based on the scheme of indirect measurement, in that measurement
apparatus plays the role of the environment for a biosystem. The biological
essence of this scheme is illustrated by quantum formalization of Helmholtz
sensation-perception theory. Then we move to open systems dynamics and consider
quantum master equation, with concentrating on quantum Markov processes. In
this framework, we model functioning of biological functions such as
psychological functions and epigenetic mutation.

We provide conceptual and mathematical foundations for near-term quantum
natural language processing (QNLP), and do so in quantum computer scientist
friendly terms. We opted for an expository presentation style, and provide
references for supporting empirical evidence and formal statements concerning
mathematical generality.
  We recall how the quantum model for natural language that we employ
canonically combines linguistic meanings with rich linguistic structure, most
notably grammar. In particular, the fact that it takes a quantum-like model to
combine meaning and structure, establishes QNLP as quantum-native, on par with
simulation of quantum systems. Moreover, the now leading Noisy
Intermediate-Scale Quantum (NISQ) paradigm for encoding classical data on
quantum hardware, variational quantum circuits, makes NISQ exceptionally
QNLP-friendly: linguistic structure can be encoded as a free lunch, in contrast
to the apparently exponentially expensive classical encoding of grammar.
  Quantum speed-up for QNLP tasks has already been established in previous work
with Will Zeng. Here we provide a broader range of tasks which all enjoy the
same advantage.
  Diagrammatic reasoning is at the heart of QNLP. Firstly, the quantum model
interprets language as quantum processes via the diagrammatic formalism of
categorical quantum mechanics. Secondly, these diagrams are via ZX-calculus
translated into quantum circuits. Parameterisations of meanings then become the
circuit variables to be learned.
  Our encoding of linguistic structure within quantum circuits also embodies a
novel approach for establishing word-meanings that goes beyond the current
standards in mainstream AI, by placing linguistic structure at the heart of
Wittgenstein's meaning-is-context.

Classification of quantum data is essential for quantum machine learning and
near-term quantum technologies. In this paper, we propose a new hybrid
quantum-classical framework for supervised quantum learning, which we call
Variational Shadow Quantum Learning (VSQL). Our method in particular utilizes
the classical shadows of quantum data, which fundamentally represent the side
information of quantum data with respect to certain physical observables.
Specifically, we first use variational shadow quantum circuits to extract
classical features in a convolution way and then utilize a fully-connected
neural network to complete the classification task. We show that this method
could sharply reduce the number of parameters and thus better facilitate
quantum circuit training. Simultaneously, less noise will be introduced since
fewer quantum gates are employed in such shadow circuits. Moreover, we show
that the Barren Plateau issue, a significant gradient vanishing problem in
quantum machine learning, could be avoided in VSQL. Finally, we demonstrate the
efficiency of VSQL in quantum classification via numerical experiments on the
classification of quantum states and the recognition of multi-labeled
handwritten digits. In particular, our VSQL approach outperforms existing
variational quantum classifiers in the test accuracy in the binary case of
handwritten digit recognition and notably requires much fewer parameters.

Recently, it was shown that when reference frames are associated to quantum
systems, the transformation laws between such quantum reference frames need to
be modified to take into account the quantum and dynamical features of the
reference frames. This led to a relational description of the phase space
variables of the quantum system of which the quantum reference frames are part
of. While such transformations were shown to be symmetries of the system's
Hamiltonian, the question remained unanswered as to whether they enjoy a group
structure, similar to that of the Galilei group relating classical reference
frames in quantum mechanics. In this work, we identify the canonical
transformations on the phase space of the quantum systems comprising the
quantum reference frames, and show that these transformations close a group
structure defined by a Lie algebra, which is different from the usual Galilei
algebra of quantum mechanics. We further find that the elements of this new
algebra are in fact the building blocks of the quantum reference frames
transformations previously identified, which we recover. Finally, we show how
the transformations between classical reference frames described by the
standard Galilei group symmetries can be obtained from the group of
transformations between quantum reference frames by taking the zero limit of
the parameter that governs the additional noncommutativity introduced by the
quantum nature of inertial transformations.

Quantum algorithms are promising candidates for the enhancement of
computational efficiency for a variety of computational tasks, allowing for the
numerical study of physical systems intractable to classical computers. In the
Noisy Intermediate Scale Quantum (NISQ) era of quantum computing, however,
quantum resources are limited and thus quantum algorithms utilizing such
resources efficiently are highly coveted. We present a resource-efficient
quantum algorithm for bosonic ground and excited state computations using the
Variational Quantum Eigensolver algorithm with the Unitary Coupled Cluster
ansatz. The algorithm is based on two quantum resource reduction strategies,
consisting of a selective Hamming truncation of the encoded qubit Hilbert space
along with a qubit ground state encoding protocol. Our algorithm proves to
significantly increase accuracy with a simultaneous reduction of required
quantum resources compared to current approaches. Furthermore, the selective
Hamming truncation of our algorithm presents a versatile method to tailor the
utilized quantum resources of a quantum computer depending on the hardware
parameters. Finally, our work may contribute to shortening the route to achieve
a practical quantum advantage in bosonic quantum simulations. The study of
vibrational properties of molecular systems is crucial in a variety of
contexts, such as spectroscopy, fluorescence, chemical reaction dynamics and
transport properties. Thus, our algorithm provides a resource-efficient
flexible approach to study such applications in the context of quantum
computational chemistry on quantum computers.

The scaling up of quantum hardware is the fundamental challenge ahead in
order to realize the disruptive potential of quantum technology in information
science. Among the plethora of hardware platforms, photonics stands out by
offering a modular approach, where the main challenge is to construct
sufficiently high-quality building blocks and develop methods to efficiently
interface them. Importantly, the subsequent scaling-up will make full use of
the mature integrated photonic technology provided by photonic foundry
infrastructure to produce small foot-print quantum processors of immense
complexity. A fully coherent and deterministic photon-emitter interface is a
key enabler of quantum photonics, and can today be realized with solid-state
quantum emitters with specifications reaching the quantitative benchmark
referred to as Quantum Advantage. This light-matter interaction primer realizes
a range of quantum photonic resources and functionalities, including on-demand
single-photon and multi-photon entanglement sources, and photon-photon
nonlinear quantum gates. We will present the current state-of-the-art in
single-photon quantum hardware and the main photonic building blocks required
in order to scale up. Furthermore, we will point out specific promising
applications of the hardware building blocks within quantum communication and
photonic quantum computing, laying out the road ahead for quantum photonics
applications that could offer a genuine quantum advantage.

A key problem in the field of quantum computing is understanding whether
quantum machine learning (QML) models implemented on noisy intermediate-scale
quantum (NISQ) machines can achieve quantum advantages. Recently, Huang et al.
[Nat Commun 12, 2631] partially answered this question by the lens of quantum
kernel learning. Namely, they exhibited that quantum kernels can learn specific
datasets with lower generalization error over the optimal classical kernel
methods. However, most of their results are established on the ideal setting
and ignore the caveats of near-term quantum machines. To this end, a crucial
open question is: does the power of quantum kernels still hold under the NISQ
setting? In this study, we fill this knowledge gap by exploiting the power of
quantum kernels when the quantum system noise and sample error are considered.
Concretely, we first prove that the advantage of quantum kernels is vanished
for large size of datasets, few number of measurements, and large system noise.
With the aim of preserving the superiority of quantum kernels in the NISQ era,
we further devise an effective method via indefinite kernel learning. Numerical
simulations accord with our theoretical results. Our work provides theoretical
guidance of exploring advanced quantum kernels to attain quantum advantages on
NISQ devices.

Identifying the physiological processes in the central nervous system that
underlie our conscious experiences has been at the forefront of cognitive
neuroscience. While the principles of classical physics were long found to be
unaccommodating for a causally effective consciousness, the inherent
indeterminism of quantum physics, together with its characteristic dichotomy
between quantum states and quantum observables, provides a fertile ground for
the physical modeling of consciousness. Here, we utilize the Schr\"odinger
equation, together with the Planck--Einstein relation between energy and
frequency, in order to determine the appropriate quantum dynamical timescale of
conscious processes. Furthermore, with the help of a simple two-qubit toy model
we illustrate the importance of non-zero interaction Hamiltonian for the
generation of quantum entanglement and manifestation of observable correlations
between different measurement outcomes. Employing a quantitative measure of
entanglement based on Schmidt decomposition, we show that quantum evolution
governed only by internal Hamiltonians for the individual quantum subsystems
preserves quantum coherence of separable initial quantum states, but eliminates
the possibility of any interaction and quantum entanglement. The presence of
non-zero interaction Hamiltonian, however, allows for decoherence of the
individual quantum subsystems along with their mutual interaction and quantum
entanglement. The presented results show that quantum coherence of individual
subsystems cannot be used for cognitive binding because it is a physical
mechanism that leads to separability and non-interaction. In contrast, quantum
interactions with their associated decoherence of individual subsystems are
instrumental for dynamical changes in the quantum entanglement of the composite
quantum state vector and manifested correlations of different observable
outcomes.

Deep-circuit quantum computation, like Shor's algorithm, is undermined by
error accumulation, and near-future quantum techniques are far from adequate
for full-fledged quantum error correction. Instead of resorting to
shallow-circuit quantum algorithms, recent theoretical research suggests that
digital quantum simulation (DQS) of closed quantum systems are robust against
the accumulation of Trotter errors, as long as local observables are concerned.
In this paper, we investigate digital quantum simulation of open quantum
systems. First, we prove that the deviation in the steady state obtained from
digital quantum simulation depends only on the error in a single Trotter step,
which indicates that error accumulation may not be disastrous. By numerical
simulation of the quantum circuits for the DQS of the dissipative XYZ model, we
then show that the correct results can be recovered by quantum error mitigation
as long as the error rate in the DQS is below a sharp threshold. We explain
this threshold behavior by the existence of a dissipation-driven quantum phase
transition. Finally, we propose a new error-mitigation technique based on the
scaling behavior in the vicinity of the critical point of a quantum phase
transition. Our results expand the territory of near-future available quantum
algorithms and stimulate further theoretical and experimental efforts in
practical quantum applications.

It has been shown that the apparent advantage of some quantum machine
learning algorithms may be efficiently replicated using classical algorithms
with suitable data access -- a process known as dequantization. Existing works
on dequantization compare quantum algorithms which take copies of an n-qubit
quantum state $|x\rangle = \sum_{i} x_i |i\rangle$ as input to classical
algorithms which have sample and query (SQ) access to the vector $x$. In this
note, we prove that classical algorithms with SQ access can accomplish some
learning tasks exponentially faster than quantum algorithms with quantum state
inputs. Because classical algorithms are a subset of quantum algorithms, this
demonstrates that SQ access can sometimes be significantly more powerful than
quantum state inputs. Our findings suggest that the absence of exponential
quantum advantage in some learning tasks may be due to SQ access being too
powerful relative to quantum state inputs. If we compare quantum algorithms
with quantum state inputs to classical algorithms with access to measurement
data on quantum states, the landscape of quantum advantage can be dramatically
different. We remark that when the quantum states are constructed from
exponential-size classical data, comparing SQ access and quantum state inputs
is appropriate since both require exponential time to prepare.

Present-day quantum communication predominantly depends on trusted relays
(e.g., quantum repeaters, low-Earth-orbit satellite) connected by optical fiber
cables to transmit information. However, recent evidence supports a decades-old
concept that quantum entanglement, harnessed by current quantum communication
systems, does not necessarily rely on a physical relay medium. In modern
quantum communication networks, this trusted relay infrastructure is (1)
susceptible to security attacks, (2) limited by the channel capacity, (3)
subject to decoherence loss, and (4) expensive to set up. The instantaneous and
faster-than-light activities of quantum entanglement occurring in quantum
communication have suggested guidance by some non-locality nature. On the
contrary, neither ground nor space-relays have shown or been demonstrated to
embody it. It is proposed in this paper that the non-locality nature of quantum
theory governs quantum entanglement; elementary particles, components of a
universal quantum body, can achieve remote entanglement regardless of a
physical medium or spatial proximity. Evidence and theory supporting remote
entanglement in superconducting quantum systems (entanglement fidelities for
communication in particular) are presented. One such particle, the photon,
representing a basic unit of quantum information, qubit $|\psi\rangle = \alpha
|0\rangle + \beta |1\rangle$, consists of real continuous values in complex
numbers $(\alpha, \beta)$ with infinite precision. These values $(\alpha,
\beta)$ can account for the distinctiveness of qubits and result in an identity
$QuID$ that possibly supports remote entanglement. New approaches to
medium-free secure quantum communication are suggested by running simulations
and actual quantum computations on a quantum circuit.

Variational algorithms are a representative class of quantum computing
workloads that combine quantum and classical computing. This paper presents an
LLVM-based C++ compiler toolchain to efficiently execute variational hybrid
quantum-classical algorithms on a computational system in which the quantum
device acts as an accelerator. We introduce a set of extensions to the C++
language for programming these algorithms. We define a novel Executable and
Linking Format (ELF) for Quantum and create a quantum device compiler component
in the LLVM framework to compile the quantum part of the C++ source and reuse
the host compiler in the LLVM framework to compile the classical computing part
of the C++ source. A variational algorithm runs a quantum circuit repeatedly,
each time with different gate parameters. We add to the quantum runtime the
capability to execute dynamically a quantum circuit with different parameters.
Thus, programmers can call quantum routines the same way as classical routines.
With these capabilities, a variational hybrid quantum-classical algorithm can
be specified in a single-source code and only needs to be compiled once for all
iterations. The single compilation significantly reduces the execution latency
of variational algorithms. We evaluate the framework's performance by running
quantum circuits that prepare Thermofield Double (TFD) states, a
quantum-classical variational algorithm.

We initiate the study of software watermarking against quantum adversaries. A
quantum adversary generates a quantum state as a pirate software that
potentially removes an embedded message from a classical marked software.
Extracting an embedded message from quantum pirate software is difficult since
measurement could irreversibly alter the quantum state.
  In this work, we define secure watermarking PRFs for quantum adversaries
(unremovability against quantum adversaries). We also present two watermarking
PRFs as follows.
  - We construct a privately extractable watermarking PRF against quantum
adversaries from the quantum hardness of the learning with errors (LWE)
problem. The marking and extraction algorithms use a public parameter and a
private extraction key, respectively. The watermarking PRF is unremovable even
if adversaries have (the public parameter and) access to the extraction oracle,
which returns a result of extraction for a queried quantum circuit.
  - We construct a publicly extractable watermarking PRF against quantum
adversaries from indistinguishability obfuscation (IO) and the quantum hardness
of the LWE problem. The marking and extraction algorithms use a public
parameter and a public extraction key, respectively. The watermarking PRF is
unremovable even if adversaries have the extraction key (and the public
parameter).
  We develop a quantum extraction technique to extract information (a classical
string) from a quantum state without destroying the state too much. We also
introduce the notion of extraction-less watermarking PRFs as a crucial building
block to achieve the results above by combining the tool with our quantum
extraction technique.

We present a quantum circuit synthesis algorithm for implementing universal
fault-tolerant quantum computing based on concatenated codes. To realize
fault-tolerant quantum computing, the fault-tolerant quantum protocols should
be transformed into executable quantum circuits based on the nearest-neighbor
interaction. Unlike topological codes that are defined based on local
operations fundamentally, for the concatenated codes, it is possible to obtain
the circuits composed of the local operations by applying the quantum circuit
synthesis. However, by the existing quantum circuit synthesis developed for
ordinary quantum computational algorithms, the fault-tolerant of the protocol
may not be preserved in the resulting circuit. Besides, we have to consider
something more to implement the quantum circuit of universal fault-tolerant
quantum computing. First, we have not to propagate quantum errors on data
qubits when selecting a qubit move path (a sequence of \emph{SWAP} gates) to
satisfy the geometric locality constraint. Second, the circuit should be
self-contained so that it is possible to act independently regardless of the
situation. Third, for universal fault-tolerant quantum computing, we require
multiple fault-tolerant quantum circuits of multiple fault-tolerant quantum
protocols acting on the same input, a logical data qubit. Last, we need to
recall fault-tolerant protocols such as syndrome measure and encoder implicitly
include classical control processing conditioned on the measurement outcomes,
and therefore have to partition the quantum circuits in time flow to execute
the classical control as the architect intended. We propose the circuit
synthesis method resolving the requirements and show how to synthesize the set
of universal fault-tolerant protocols for $[[7,1,3]]$ Steane code and the
syndrome measurement protocol of $[[23, 1, 7]]$ Golay code.

One of the major problems of most quantum computing applications is that the
required number of qubits to solve a practical problem is much larger than that
of today's quantum hardware. We propose an algorithm, called large-system
sampling approximation (LSSA), to solve Ising problems with sizes up to
$N_{\rm{gb}}2^{N_{\rm{gb}}}$ by an $N_{\rm{gb}}$-qubit gate-based quantum
computer, and with sizes up to $N_{\rm{an}}2^{N_{\rm{gb}}}$ by a hybrid
computational architecture of an $N_{\rm{an}}$-qubit quantum annealer and an
$N_{\rm{gb}}$-qubit gate-based quantum computer. By dividing the full-system
problem into smaller subsystem problems, the LSSA algorithm then solves the
subsystem problems by either gate-based quantum computers or quantum annealers,
optimizes the amplitude contributions of the solutions of the different
subsystems with the full-problem Hamiltonian by the variational quantum
eigensolver (VQE) on a gate-based quantum computer, and determines the
approximated ground-state configuration. We apply the level-1 approximation of
LSSA to solving fully-connected random Ising problems up to 160 variables using
a 5-qubit gate-based quantum computer, and solving portfolio optimization
problems up to 4096 variables using a 100-qubit quantum annealer and a 7-qubit
gate-based quantum computer. We demonstrate the use of the level-2
approximation of LSSA to solve the portfolio optimization problems up to 5120
($N_{\rm{gb}}2^{2N_{\rm{gb}}}$) variables with pretty good performance by using
just a 5-qubit ($N_{\rm{gb}}$-qubit) gate-based quantum computer. The
completely new computational concept of the hybrid gate-based and annealing
quantum computing architecture opens a promising possibility to investigate
large-size Ising problems and combinatorial optimization problems, making
practical applications by quantum computing possible in the near future.

While recent breakthroughs have proven the ability of noisy
intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ) devices to achieve quantum advantage in
classically-intractable sampling tasks, the use of these devices for solving
more practically relevant computational problems remains a challenge. Proposals
for attaining practical quantum advantage typically involve parametrized
quantum circuits (PQCs), whose parameters can be optimized to find solutions to
diverse problems throughout quantum simulation and machine learning. However,
training PQCs for real-world problems remains a significant practical
challenge, largely due to the phenomenon of barren plateaus in the optimization
landscapes of randomly-initialized quantum circuits. In this work, we introduce
a scalable procedure for harnessing classical computing resources to provide
pre-optimized initializations for PQCs, which we show significantly improves
the trainability and performance of PQCs on a variety of problems. Given a
specific optimization task, this method first utilizes tensor network (TN)
simulations to identify a promising quantum state, which is then converted into
gate parameters of a PQC by means of a high-performance decomposition
procedure. We show that this learned initialization avoids barren plateaus, and
effectively translates increases in classical resources to enhanced performance
and speed in training quantum circuits. By demonstrating a means of boosting
limited quantum resources using classical computers, our approach illustrates
the promise of this synergy between quantum and quantum-inspired models in
quantum computing, and opens up new avenues to harness the power of modern
quantum hardware for realizing practical quantum advantage.

At the moment, quantum circuits are created mainly by manually placing logic
elements on lines that symbolize quantum bits. The purpose of creating Quantum
Circuit Synthesizer "Naginata" was due to the fact that even with a slight
increase in the number of operations in a quantum algorithm, leads to the
significant increase in size of the corresponding quantum circuit. This causes
serious difficulties both in creating and debugging these quantum circuits. The
purpose of our quantum synthesizer is enabling users an opportunity to
implement quantum algorithms using higher-level commands. This is achieved by
creating generic blocks for frequently used operations such as: the adder,
multiplier, digital comparator (comparison operator), etc. Thus, the user could
implement a quantum algorithm by using these generic blocks, and the quantum
synthesizer would create a suitable circuit for this algorithm, in a format
that is supported by the chosen quantum computation environment. This approach
greatly simplifies the processes of development and debugging a quantum
algorithm. The proposed approach for implementing quantum algorithms has a
potential application in the field of machine learning, in this regard, we
provided an example of creating a circuit for training a simple neural network.
Neural networks have a significant impact on the technological development of
the transport and road complex, and there is a potential for improving the
reliability and efficiency of their learning process by utilizing quantum
computation, through the introduction of quantum computing.

The impossibility of creating perfect identical copies of unknown quantum
systems is a fundamental concept in quantum theory and one of the main
non-classical properties of quantum information. This limitation imposed by
quantum mechanics, famously known as the no-cloning theorem, has played a
central role in quantum cryptography as a key component in the security of
quantum protocols. In this thesis, we look at Unclonability in a broader
context in physics and computer science and more specifically through the lens
of cryptography, learnability and hardware assumptions. We introduce new
notions of unclonability in the quantum world, namely quantum physical
unclonability, and study the relationship with cryptographic properties and
assumptions such as unforgeability, and quantum pseudorandomness. The purpose
of this study is to bring new insights into the field of quantum cryptanalysis
and into the notion of unclonability itself. We also discuss several
applications of this new type of unclonability as a cryptographic resource for
designing provably secure quantum protocols. Furthermore, we present a new
practical cryptanalysis technique concerning the problem of approximate cloning
of quantum states. We design a quantum machine learning-based cryptanalysis
algorithm to demonstrate the power of quantum learning tools as both attack
strategies and powerful tools for the practical study of quantum unclonability.

Quantum search algorithms offer a remarkable advantage of quadratic reduction
in query complexity using quantum superposition principle. However, how an
actual architecture may access and handle the database in a quantum superposed
state has been largely unexplored so far; the quantum state of data was simply
assumed to be prepared and accessed by a black-box operation -- so-called
oracle, even though this process, if not appropriately designed, may adversely
diminish the quantum query advantage. Here, we introduce an efficient quantum
data-access process, dubbed as quantum data-access machine (QDAM), and present
a general architecture for quantum search algorithm. We analyze the runtime of
our algorithm in view of the fault-tolerant quantum computation (FTQC)
consisting of logical qubits within an effective quantum error correction code.
Specifically, we introduce a measure involving two computational complexities,
i.e. quantum query and $T$-depth complexities, which can be critical to assess
performance since the logical non-Clifford gates, such as the $T$ (i.e.,
$\pi/8$ rotation) gate, are known to be costliest to implement in FTQC. Our
analysis shows that for $N$ searching data, a QDAM model exhibiting a
logarithmic, i.e., $O(\log{N})$, growth of the $T$-depth complexity can be
constructed. Further analysis reveals that our QDAM-embedded quantum search
requires $O(\sqrt{N} \times \log{N})$ runtime cost. Our study thus demonstrates
that the quantum data search algorithm can truly speed up over classical
approaches with the logarithmic $T$-depth QDAM as a key component.

One of the challenges currently facing the quantum computing community is the
design of quantum circuits which can efficiently run on near-term quantum
computers, known as the quantum compiling problem. Algorithms such as the
Variational Quantum Eigensolver (VQE), Quantum Approximate Optimization
Algorithm (QAOA), and Quantum Architecture Search (QAS) have been shown to
generate or find optimal near-term quantum circuits. However, these methods are
computationally expensive and yield little insight into the circuit design
process. In this paper, we propose Quantum Deep Dreaming (QDD), an algorithm
that generates optimal quantum circuit architectures for specified objectives,
such as ground state preparation, while providing insight into the circuit
design process. In QDD, we first train a neural network to predict some
property of a quantum circuit (such as VQE energy). Then, we employ the Deep
Dreaming technique on the trained network to iteratively update an initial
circuit to achieve a target property value (such as ground state VQE energy).
Importantly, this iterative updating allows us to analyze the intermediate
circuits of the dreaming process and gain insights into the circuit features
that the network is modifying during dreaming. We demonstrate that QDD
successfully generates, or 'dreams', circuits of six qubits close to ground
state energy (Transverse Field Ising Model VQE energy) and that dreaming
analysis yields circuit design insights. QDD is designed to optimize circuits
with any target property and can be applied to circuit design problems both
within and outside of quantum chemistry. Hence, QDD lays the foundation for the
future discovery of optimized quantum circuits and for increased
interpretability of automated quantum algorithm design.

Quantum entanglement is a fundamental resource for quantum information
processing and is widely used in quantum communication, quantum computation and
quantum metrology. Early research on quantum entanglement mainly focus on qubit
states, but in recent years, more and more research has begun to focus on
high-dimensional entangled states. Compared with qubit entangled states,
higher-dimensional entangled states have a larger information capacity and the
potential to realize more complex quantum applications. In this Letter, we have
experimentally prepared a special high-dimensional entangled state, the
so-called three-photon asymmetric maximally entangled state, which consists of
two two-dimensional photons and one four-dimensional photon. Using this
asymmetric maximally entangled state as a resource, we have also implemented a
proof-of-principle quantum teleportation experiment, realizing the transfer of
quantum information from two qubits to a single ququart. The fidelities of the
quantum teleportation range from 0.79 to 0.86, which are well above both the
optimal single-copy ququart state-estimation limit of 2/5 and maximal
qutrit-ququart overlap of 3/4, thus confirming a genuine and nonclassical
four-dimensional teleportation. The asymmetric entangled state realized here
has the potential to be used as a quantum interface in future quantum networks,
allowing quantum information transfer between quantum objects of different
dimensions via the quantum teleportation protocol demonstrated in this work.

The interplay between quantum physics and machine learning gives rise to the
emergent frontier of quantum machine learning, where advanced quantum learning
models may outperform their classical counterparts in solving certain
challenging problems. However, quantum learning systems are vulnerable to
adversarial attacks: adding tiny carefully-crafted perturbations on legitimate
input samples can cause misclassifications. To address this issue, we propose a
general scheme to protect quantum learning systems from adversarial attacks by
randomly encoding the legitimate data samples through unitary or quantum error
correction encoders. In particular, we rigorously prove that both global and
local random unitary encoders lead to exponentially vanishing gradients (i.e.
barren plateaus) for any variational quantum circuits that aim to add
adversarial perturbations, independent of the input data and the inner
structures of adversarial circuits and quantum classifiers. In addition, we
prove a rigorous bound on the vulnerability of quantum classifiers under local
unitary adversarial attacks. We show that random black-box quantum error
correction encoders can protect quantum classifiers against local adversarial
noises and their robustness increases as we concatenate error correction codes.
To quantify the robustness enhancement, we adapt quantum differential privacy
as a measure of the prediction stability for quantum classifiers. Our results
establish versatile defense strategies for quantum classifiers against
adversarial perturbations, which provide valuable guidance to enhance the
reliability and security for both near-term and future quantum learning
technologies.

The Heisenberg limit provides a quadratic improvement over the standard
quantum limit, and is the maximum quantum advantage that linear quantum sensors
could provide over classical methods. It remains elusive, however, because of
the inevitable presence of noise decohering quantum sensors. Namely, if
infinite rounds of quantum error correction corrects any part of a quantum
sensor's signal, a no-go result purports that the standard quantum limit
scaling can not be exceeded. We side-step this no-go result by using an optimal
finite number of rounds of quantum error correction, such that even if part of
the signal is corrected away, our quantum field sensing protocol can approach
the Heisenberg limit in the face of a linear rate of deletion errors. Here, we
focus on quantum error correction codes within the symmetric subspace.
Symmetric states of collective angular momentum are good candidates for
multi-qubit probe states in quantum sensors because they are easy to prepare
and can be controlled without requiring individual addressability. We show how
the representation theory of the symmetric group can inform practical decoding
algorithms for permutation-invariant codes. These decoding algorithms involve
measurements of total angular momentum, quantum Schur transforms or logical
state teleportations, and geometric pulse gates. Our completion of the theory
of permutation-invariant codes allows near-term implementation of quantum error
correction using simple quantum control techniques.

Reducing the impact of errors and decoherence in near-term quantum computers,
such as noisy intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ) devices, is critical for their
practical implementation. These factors significantly limit the applicability
of quantum algorithms, necessitating a comprehensive understanding of their
physical origins to establish effective error mitigation strategies. In this
study, we present a non-Markovian model of quantum state evolution and a
quantum error mitigation cost function tailored for NISQ devices interacting
with an environment represented by a set of simple harmonic oscillators as a
noise source. Employing the projection operator formalism and both advanced and
retarded propagators in time, we derive the reduced-density operator for the
output quantum states in a time-convolutionless form by solving the quantum
Liouville equation. We examine the output quantum state fluctuations for both
identity and controlled-NOT (CNOT) gate operations in two-qubit operations
using a range of input states. Subsequently, these results are compared with
experimental data from ion-trap and superconducting quantum computing systems
to estimate the crucial parameters of the cost functions for quantum error
mitigation. Our findings reveal that the cost function for quantum error
mitigation increases as the coupling strength between the quantum system and
its environment intensifies. This study underscores the significance of
non-Markovian models in understanding quantum state evolution and highlights
the practical implications of the quantum error mitigation cost function when
assessing experimental results from NISQ devices.

Quantum correlations are a fundamental property of quantum many-body states.
Yet they remain experimentally elusive, hindering certification of genuine
quantum behavior, especially in quantum materials. Here we show that the
momentum-dependent dynamical susceptibility measured via inelastic neutron
scattering enables the systematic reconstruction of quantum correlation
functions, which express the degree of quantum coherence in the fluctuations of
two spins at arbitrary mutual distance. Using neutron scattering data on the
compound KCuF$_3$ $\unicode{x2014}$ a system of weakly coupled $S=1/2$
Heisenberg chains $\unicode{x2014}$ and of numerically exact quantum Monte
Carlo data, we show that quantum correlations possess a radically different
spatial structure with respect to conventional correlations. Indeed, they
exhibit a new emergent length of quantum-mechanical origin $\unicode{x2014}$
the quantum coherence length $\unicode{x2014}$ which is finite at any finite
temperature (including when long-range magnetic order develops). Moreover, we
show theoretically that coupled Heisenberg spin chains exhibit a form of
quantum monogamy, with a trade-off between quantum correlations along and
transverse to the spin chains. These results highlight real-space quantum
correlators as an informative, model-independent means of probing the
underlying quantum state of real quantum materials.

Quantum machine learning with parametrised quantum circuits has attracted
significant attention over the past years as an early application for the era
of noisy quantum processors. However, the possibility of achieving concrete
advantages over classical counterparts in practical learning tasks is yet to be
demonstrated. A promising avenue to explore potential advantages is the
learning of data generated by quantum mechanical systems and presented in an
inherently quantum mechanical form. In this article, we explore the
applicability of quantum-data learning to practical problems in high-energy
physics, aiming to identify domain specific use-cases where quantum models can
be employed. We consider quantum states governed by one-dimensional lattice
gauge theories and a phenomenological quantum field theory in particle physics,
generated by digital quantum simulations or variational methods to approximate
target states. We make use of an ansatz based on quantum convolutional neural
networks and numerically show that it is capable of recognizing quantum phases
of ground states in the Schwinger model, (de)confinement phases from
time-evolved states in the $\mathbb{Z}_2$ gauge theory, and that it can extract
fermion flavor/coupling constants in a quantum simulation of parton shower. The
observation of non-trivial learning properties demonstrated in these benchmarks
will motivate further exploration of the quantum-data learning architecture in
high-energy physics.

Quantum computing has proven to be capable of accelerating many algorithms by
performing tasks that classical computers cannot. Currently, Noisy Intermediate
Scale Quantum (NISQ) machines struggle from scalability and noise issues to
render a commercial quantum computer. However, the physical and software
improvements of a quantum computer can efficiently control quantum gate noise.
As the complexity of quantum algorithms and implementation increases, software
control of quantum circuits may lead to a more intricate design. Consequently,
the verification of quantum circuits becomes crucial in ensuring the
correctness of the compilation, along with other processes, including quantum
error correction and assertions, that can increase the fidelity of quantum
circuits. In this paper, we propose a Decision Diagram-based quantum
equivalence checking approach, QuBEC, that requires less latency compared to
existing techniques, while accounting for circuits with quantum error
correction redundancy. Our proposed methodology reduces verification time on
certain benchmark circuits by up to $271.49 \times$, while the number of
Decision Diagram nodes required is reduced by up to $798.31 \times$, compared
to state-of-the-art strategies. The proposed QuBEC framework can contribute to
the advancement of quantum computing by enabling faster and more efficient
verification of quantum circuits, paving the way for the development of larger
and more complex quantum algorithms.

This study unveils a groundbreaking exploration of using semiconductor
technology in quantum circuitry. Leveraging the unique operability of 45 nm
CMOS technology at deep cryogenic temperatures (~ 300 mK), a novel quantum
electronic circuit is meticulously designed. Through the intricate coupling of
two matching circuits via a 45 nm nMOS transistor, operating as an open quantum
system, the circuit quantum Hamiltonian and the related Heisenberg-Langevin
equation are derived, setting the stage for a comprehensive quantum analysis.
Central to this investigation are three pivotal coefficients derived, which are
the coupling between the coupled oscillator charge and flux operators through
the internal circuit of the transistor. These coefficients emerge as critical
determinants, shaping both the circuit potential as a parametric amplifier and
its impact on quantum properties. The study unfolds a delicate interplay
between these coefficients, showcasing their profound influence on quantum
discord and the gain of the parametric amplifier. Consequently, the
assimilation of 45 nm CMOS technology with quantum circuitry makes it possible
to potentially bridge the technological gap in quantum computing applications,
where the parametric amplifier is a necessary and critical device. The designed
novel quantum device serves not only as a quantum parametric amplifier to
amplify quantum signals but also enhances the inherent quantum properties of
the signals such as non-classicality. Therefore, one can create an effective
parametric amplifier that simultaneously improves the quantum characteristics
of the signals. The more interesting result is that if such a theory becomes
applicable, the circuit implemented in the deep-cryogenic temperature can be
easily compatible with the next step of circuitry while keeping the same
electronic features compatibility with the quantum processor.

Learning tasks play an increasingly prominent role in quantum information and
computation. They range from fundamental problems such as state discrimination
and metrology over the framework of quantum probably approximately correct
(PAC) learning, to the recently proposed shadow variants of state tomography.
However, the many directions of quantum learning theory have so far evolved
separately. We propose a general mathematical formalism for describing quantum
learning by training on classical-quantum data and then testing how well the
learned hypothesis generalizes to new data. In this framework, we prove bounds
on the expected generalization error of a quantum learner in terms of classical
and quantum information-theoretic quantities measuring how strongly the
learner's hypothesis depends on the specific data seen during training.
  To achieve this, we use tools from quantum optimal transport and quantum
concentration inequalities to establish non-commutative versions of decoupling
lemmas that underlie recent information-theoretic generalization bounds for
classical machine learning.
  Our framework encompasses and gives intuitively accessible generalization
bounds for a variety of quantum learning scenarios such as quantum state
discrimination, PAC learning quantum states, quantum parameter estimation, and
quantumly PAC learning classical functions. Thereby, our work lays a foundation
for a unifying quantum information-theoretic perspective on quantum learning.

Quantum networks can enable various applications such as distributed quantum
computing, long-distance quantum communication, and network-based quantum
sensing with unprecedented performances. One of the most important building
blocks for a quantum network is a photonic quantum memory which serves as the
interface between the communication channel and the local functional unit. A
programmable quantum memory which can process a large stream of flying qubits
and fulfill the requirements of multiple core functions in a quantum network is
still to-be-realized. Here we report a high-performance quantum memory which
can simultaneously store 72 optical qubits carried by 144 spatially separated
atomic ensembles and support up to a thousand consecutive write or read
operations in a random access way, two orders of magnitude larger than the
previous record. Due to the built-in programmability, this quantum memory can
be adapted on-demand for several functions. As example applications, we realize
quantum queue, stack, and buffer which closely resemble the counterpart devices
for classical information processing. We further demonstrate the
synchronization and reshuffle of 4 entangled pairs of photonic pulses with
probabilistic arrival time and arbitrary release order via the memory, which is
an essential requirement for the realization of quantum repeaters and efficient
routing in quantum networks. Realization of this multi-purpose programmable
quantum memory thus constitutes a key enabling building block for future
large-scale fully-functional quantum networks.

Motivated by the great success of classical generative models in machine
learning, enthusiastic exploration of their quantum version has recently
started. To depart on this journey, it is important to develop a relevant
metric to evaluate the quality of quantum generative models; in the classical
case, one such example is the inception score. In this paper, we propose the
quantum inception score, which relates the quality to the Holevo information of
the quantum channel that classifies a given dataset. We prove that, under this
proposed measure, the quantum generative models provide better quality than
their classical counterparts because of the presence of quantum coherence,
characterized by the resource theory of asymmetry, and entanglement.
Furthermore, we harness the quantum fluctuation theorem to characterize the
physical limitation of the quality of quantum generative models. Finally, we
apply the quantum inception score to assess the quality of the one-dimensional
spin chain model as a quantum generative model, with the quantum convolutional
neural network as a quantum classifier, for the phase classification problem in
the quantum many-body physics.

Quantum computing has been studied over the past four decades based on two
computational models of quantum circuits and quantum Turing machines. To
capture quantum polynomial-time computability, a new recursion-theoretic
approach was taken lately by Yamakami [J. Symb. Logic 80, pp. 1546--1587, 2020]
by way of recursion schematic definitions, which constitute six initial quantum
functions and three construction schemes of composition, branching, and
multi-qubit quantum recursion. By taking a similar approach, we look into
quantum polylogarithmic-time computability and further explore the expressing
power of elementary schemes designed for such quantum computation. In
particular, we introduce an elementary form of the quantum recursion, called
the fast quantum recursion and formulate EQS (elementary quantum schemes) of
"elementary" quantum functions. This class EQS captures exactly quantum
polylogarithmic-time computability, represented by BQPOLYLOGTIME. We also
demonstrate the separation of BQPOLYLOGTIME from NLOGTIME and PPOLYLOGTIME. As
a natural extension of EQS, we further consider an algorithmic procedural
scheme that implements the well-known divide-and-conquer strategy. This
divide-and-conquer scheme helps compute the parity function but the scheme
cannot be realized within our system EQS.

Amplification of quantum transfer and ratchet--type processes are important
for quantum technologies. We also expect that quantum ratchet works in quantum
photosynthesis, where possible role of quantum effects is now widely discussed
but the underlying dynamical processes are still not clearly known. In this
work, we study a model of amplification of quantum transfer and making it
directed which we call the quantum ratchet model. The model is based on a
special quantum control master equation with dynamics induced by a
feedback-type process. The ratchet effect is achieved in the quantum control
model with dissipation and sink, where the Hamiltonian depends on vibrations in
the energy difference synchronized with transitions between energy levels. A
similarity between this model and the model of coherent transport in quantum
photosynthesis, where the time dependence of the Hamiltonian arises due to
vibrons, is studied. Amplitude and frequency of the oscillating vibron together
with the dephasing rate are the parameters of the quantum ratchet which
determine its efficiency. We study with which parameters the quantum ratchet
minimizes the exction recombination time and show that the experimentally known
values of the parameters of the photosynthetic reaction center correspond to
values of the parameters of the quantum ratchet which realize a local minimum
of the exciton recombination time. We also find another values of the
parameters of the quantum ratchet minimizing the exciton recombination time,
which corresponds to a twice smaller frequency of the vibron compared to that
observed in experiments.

A major unresolved question in quantum cryptography is whether it is possible
to obfuscate arbitrary quantum computation. Indeed, there is much yet to
understand about the feasibility of quantum obfuscation even in the classical
oracle model, where one is given for free the ability to obfuscate any
classical circuit.
  In this work, we develop a new array of techniques that we use to construct a
quantum state obfuscator, a powerful notion formalized recently by Coladangelo
and Gunn (arXiv:2311.07794) in their pursuit of better software copy-protection
schemes. Quantum state obfuscation refers to the task of compiling a quantum
program, consisting of a quantum circuit $C$ with a classical description and
an auxiliary quantum state $\ket{\psi}$, into a functionally-equivalent
obfuscated quantum program that hides as much as possible about $C$ and
$\ket{\psi}$. We prove the security of our obfuscator when applied to any
pseudo-deterministic quantum program, i.e. one that computes a (nearly)
deterministic classical input / classical output functionality. Our security
proof is with respect to an efficient classical oracle, which may be
heuristically instantiated using quantum-secure indistinguishability
obfuscation for classical circuits.
  Our result improves upon the recent work of Bartusek, Kitagawa, Nishimaki and
Yamakawa (STOC 2023) who also showed how to obfuscate pseudo-deterministic
quantum circuits in the classical oracle model, but only ones with a completely
classical description. Furthermore, our result answers a question of
Coladangelo and Gunn, who provide a construction of quantum state
indistinguishability obfuscation with respect to a quantum oracle. Indeed, our
quantum state obfuscator together with Coladangelo-Gunn gives the first
candidate realization of a ``best-possible'' copy-protection scheme for all
polynomial-time functionalities.

The ability to realize high-fidelity quantum communication is one of the many
facets required to build generic quantum computing devices. In addition to
quantum processing, sensing, and storage, transferring the resulting quantum
states demands a careful design that finds no parallel in classical
communication. Existing experimental demonstrations of quantum information
transfer in solid-state quantum systems are largely confined to small chains
with few qubits, often relying upon non-generic schemes. Here, by using a
large-scale superconducting quantum circuit featuring thirty-six tunable
qubits, accompanied by general optimization procedures deeply rooted in
overcoming quantum chaotic behavior, we demonstrate a scalable protocol for
transferring few-particle quantum states in a two-dimensional quantum network.
These include single-qubit excitation and also two-qubit entangled states, and
two excitations for which many-body effects are present. Our approach, combined
with the quantum circuit's versatility, paves the way to short-distance quantum
communication for connecting distributed quantum processors or registers, even
if hampered by inherent imperfections in actual quantum devices.

The recent development of quantum computing, which uses entanglement,
superposition, and other quantum fundamental concepts, can provide substantial
processing advantages over traditional computing. These quantum features help
solve many complex problems that cannot be solved with conventional computing
methods. These problems include modeling quantum mechanics, logistics,
chemical-based advances, drug design, statistical science, sustainable energy,
banking, reliable communication, and quantum chemical engineering. The last few
years have witnessed remarkable advancements in quantum software and algorithm
creation and quantum hardware research, which has significantly advanced the
prospect of realizing quantum computers. It would be helpful to have
comprehensive literature research on this area to grasp the current status and
find outstanding problems that require considerable attention from the research
community working in the quantum computing industry. To better understand
quantum computing, this paper examines the foundations and vision based on
current research in this area. We discuss cutting-edge developments in quantum
computer hardware advancement and subsequent advances in quantum cryptography,
quantum software, and high-scalability quantum computers. Many potential
challenges and exciting new trends for quantum technology research and
development are highlighted in this paper for a broader debate.

Controlled quantum walk forms the basis for various quantum algorithm and
quantum simulation schemes. Though theoretical proposals are also available to
realize universal quantum computation using quantum walks, no experimental
demonstration of universal set of gates has been reported. Here we report the
experimental realize of universal set of quantum gates using photonic quantum
walk. Taking cue from the discrete-time quantum walk formalism, we encode
multiple qubits using polarization and paths degree of freedom for photon and
demonstrate realization of universal set of gates with 100\% success
probability and high fidelity, as characterised by quantum state tomography.
For a 3-qubit system we encode first qubit with $H$ and $V-$polarization of
photon and path information for the second and third qubit, closely resembling
a Mach-Zehnder interference setup. To generate a 6-qubit system and demonstrate
6-qubit GHZ state, entangled photon pairs are used as source to two 3-qubit
systems. We also provide insights into the mapping of quantum circuits to
quantum walk operations on photons and way to resourcefully scale. This work
marks a significant progress towards using photonic quantum walk for quantum
computing. It also provides a framework for photonic quantum computing using
lesser number of photons in combination with path degree of freedom to increase
the success rate of multi-qubit gate operations.

Many quantum algorithms for attacking symmetric cryptography involve the rank
problem of quantum linear equations. In this paper, we first propose two
quantum algorithms for solving quantum linear systems of equations with
coherent superposition and construct their specific quantum circuits. Unlike
previous related works, our quantum algorithms are universal. Specifically, the
two quantum algorithms can both compute the rank and general solution by one
measurement. The difference between them is whether the data register
containing the quantum coefficient matrix can be disentangled with other
registers and keep the data qubits unchanged. On this basis, we apply the two
quantum algorithms as a subroutine to parallel Simon's algorithm (with multiple
periods), Grover Meets Simon algorithm, and Alg-PolyQ2 algorithm, respectively.
Afterwards, we construct a quantum classifier within Grover Meets Simon
algorithm and the test oracle within Alg-PolyQ2 algorithm in detail, including
their respective quantum circuits. To our knowledge, no such specific analysis
has been done before. We rigorously analyze the success probability of those
algorithms to ensure that the success probability based on the proposed quantum
algorithms will not be lower than that of those original algorithms. Finally,
we discuss the lower bound of the number of CNOT gates for solving quantum
linear systems of equations with coherent superposition, and our quantum
algorithms reach the optimum in terms of minimizing the number of CNOT gates.
Furthermore, our analysis indicates that the proposed algorithms are mainly
suitable for conducting attacks against lightweight symmetric ciphers, within
the effective working time of an ion trap quantum computer.

In this chapter we explore the connection between mesoscopic physics and
quantum computing. After giving a bibliography providing a general introduction
to the subject of quantum information processing, we review the various
approaches that are being considered for the experimental implementation of
quantum computing and quantum communication in atomic physics, quantum optics,
nuclear magnetic resonance, superconductivity, and, especially, normal-electron
solid state physics. We discuss five criteria for the realization of a quantum
computer and consider the implications that these criteria have for quantum
computation using the spin states of single-electron quantum dots. Finally, we
consider the transport of quantum information via the motion of individual
electrons in mesoscopic structures; specific transport and noise measurements
in coupled quantum dot geometries for detecting and characterizing
electron-state entanglement are analyzed.

The paper deals with the theoretical investigation of intrasubband plasmons
in an array of quantum wires, consisting of a finite number of quantum wires,
arranged at an equal distance from each other and placed into an external
magnetic field. Two types of quantum wire array are under consideration: an
ordered array of quantum wires with equal electron densities in all quantum
wires and weakly disordered array of quantum wires, which is characterized by
the fact that the density of electrons of one defect quantum wire was different
from that of other quantum wires. For the ordered array of quantum wires,
placed into the external magnetic field, the nonmonotonical dependence of
plasmon frequency upon the 1D density of electrons in quantum wires is
predicted. For high magnetic field the existence of 1D electron density ranges,
in which plasmon modes do not exist, is shown. For the weakly disordered array
of quantum wires the existence of the local plasmon modes, which properties
differ from those of usual modes, is found. At high magnetic field the
disappearance of the local plasmon modes at certain ranges of 1D electron
density in defect quantum wire is shown.

The quantum space-time model which accounts material Reference Frames (RF)
quantum effects considered for flat space-time and ADM canonical gravity. As
was shown by Aharonov for RF - free material object its c.m. nonrelativistic
motion in vacuum described by Schrodinger wave packet evolution which modify
space coordinate operator of test particle in this RF and changes its
Heisenberg uncertainty relations. In the relativistic case we show that Lorentz
transformations between two RFs include the quantum corrections for RFs
momentum uncertainty and in general can be formulated as the quantum space-time
transformations. As the result for moving RF its Lorentz time boost acquires
quantum fluctuations which calculated solving relativistic Heisenberg equations
for the quantum clocks models. It permits to calculate RF proper time for the
arbitrary RF quantum motion including quantum gravity metrics fluctuations.
Space-time structure of canonical Quantum Gravity and its observables evolution
for RF proper time discussed in this quantum space-time transformations
framework.

We define quantum exterior product wedge_h and quantum exterior differential
d_h on Poisson manifolds (of which symplectic manifolds are an important class
of examples). Quantum de Rham cohomology, which is a deformation quantization
of de Rham cohomology, is defined as the cohomology of d_h. We also define
quantum Dolbeault cohomology. A version of quantum integral on symplectic
manifolds is considered and the correspoding quantum Stokes theorem is proved.
We also derive quantum hard Lefschetz theorem. By replacing d by d_h and wedge
by wedge_h in the usual definitions, we define many quantum analogues of
important objects in differential geometry, e.g. quantum curvature. The quantum
characteristic classes are then studied along the lines of classical Chern-Weil
theory. Quantum equivariant de Rham cohomology is defined in the similar
fashion.

We consider quantum group theory on the Hilbert space level. We find all
unitary representations of three braided quantum groups related to the quantum
``ax+b'' group. First we introduce an auxiliary braided quantum group, which is
apparently not related to the quantum ``ax+b'' group, but easy to work with. We
find all unitary representations of this quantum group. Then we use this result
to find all unitary representations of another braided quantum group, whose
C*-algebra is generated by two (out of three) generators generating (in the
sense of Woronowicz) C*-algebra of the quantum ``ax+b''- group. We find all
unitary representations of this other braided quantum group. This is the most
difficult result needed to classify all unitary representations of the quantum
``ax+b'' group.

This paper combines quantum computation with classical neural network theory
to produce a quantum computational learning algorithm. Quantum computation uses
microscopic quantum level effects to perform computational tasks and has
produced results that in some cases are exponentially faster than their
classical counterparts. The unique characteristics of quantum theory may also
be used to create a quantum associative memory with a capacity exponential in
the number of neurons. This paper combines two quantum computational algorithms
to produce such a quantum associative memory. The result is an exponential
increase in the capacity of the memory when compared to traditional associative
memories such as the Hopfield network. The paper covers necessary high-level
quantum mechanical and quantum computational ideas and introduces a quantum
associative memory. Theoretical analysis proves the utility of the memory, and
it is noted that a small version should be physically realizable in the near
future.

Recent progress in quantum physics has made it possible to perform
experiments in which individual quantum systems are monitored and manipulated
in real time. The advent of such new technical capabilities provides strong
motivation for the development of theoretical and experimental methodologies
for quantum feedback control. The availability of such methods would enable
radically new approaches to experimental physics in the quantum realm.
Likewise, the investigation of quantum feedback control will introduce crucial
new considerations to control theory, such as the uniquely quantum phenomena of
entanglement and measurement back-action. The extension of established analysis
techniques from control theory into the quantum domain may also provide new
insight into the dynamics of complex quantum systems. We anticipate that the
successful formulation of an input-output approach to the analysis and
reduction of large quantum systems could have very general applications in
non-equilibrium quantum statistical mechanics and in the nascent field of
quantum information theory.

While thousands of experimental physicists and chemists are currently trying
to build scalable quantum computers, it appears that simulation of quantum
computation will be at least as critical as circuit simulation in classical
VLSI design. However, since the work of Richard Feynman in the early 1980s
little progress was made in practical quantum simulation. Most researchers
focused on polynomial-time simulation of restricted types of quantum circuits
that fall short of the full power of quantum computation. Simulating quantum
computing devices and useful quantum algorithms on classical hardware now
requires excessive computational resources, making many important simulation
tasks infeasible. In this work we propose a new technique for gate-level
simulation of quantum circuits which greatly reduces the difficulty and cost of
such simulations. The proposed technique is implemented in a simulation tool
called the Quantum Information Decision Diagram (QuIDD) and evaluated by
simulating Grover's quantum search algorithm. The back-end of our package,
QuIDD Pro, is based on Binary Decision Diagrams, well-known for their ability
to efficiently represent many seemingly intractable combinatorial structures.
This reliance on a well-established area of research allows us to take
advantage of existing software for BDD manipulation and achieve unparalleled
empirical results for quantum simulation.

In this paper is presented an abstract theory of quantum processors and
controllers, special kind of quantum computational network defined on a
composite quantum system with two parts: the controlling and controlled
subsystems. Such approach formally differs from consideration of quantum
control as some external influence on a system using some set of Hamiltonians
or quantum gates. The model of programmed quantum controllers discussed in
present paper is based on theory of universal deterministic quantum processors
(programmable gate arrays). Such quantum devices may simulate arbitrary
evolution of quantum system and so demonstrate an example of universal quantum
control.
  Keywords: Quantum, Computer, Control, Processor, Universal

The theory of controlled quantum open systems describes quantum systems
interacting with quantum environments and influenced by external forces varying
according to given algorithms. It is aimed, for instance, to model quantum
devices which can find applications in the future technology based on quantum
information processing. One of the main problems making difficult the practical
implementations of quantum information theory is the fragility of quantum
states under external perturbations. The aim of this note is to present the
relevant results concerning ergodic properties of open quantum systems which
are useful for the optimization of quantum devices and noise (errors)
reduction. In particular we present mathematical characterization of the
so-called "decoherence-free subspaces" for discrete and continuous-time quantum
dynamical semigroups in terms of $C^*$-algebras and group representations. We
analyze the non-Markovian models also, presenting the formulas for errors in
the Born approximation. The obtained results are used to discuss the proposed
different strategies of error reduction.

Computations with a future quantum computer will be implemented through the
operations by elementary quantum gates. It is now well known that the
collection of 1-bit and 2-bit quantum gates are universal for quantum
computation, i.e., any n-bit unitary operation can be carried out by
concatenations of 1-bit and 2-bit elementary quantum gates.
  Three contemporary quantum devices--cavity QED, ion traps and quantum
dots--have been widely regarded as perhaps the most promising candidates for
the construction of elementary quantum gates. In this paper, we describe the
physical properties of these devices, and show the mathematical derivations
based on the interaction of the laser field as control with atoms, ions or
electron spins, leading to the following: (i) the 1-bit unitary rotation gates;
and (ii) the 2-bit quantum phase gates and the controlled-not gate. This paper
is aimed at providing a sufficiently self-contained survey account of
analytical nature for mathematicians, physicists and computer scientists to aid
interdisciplinary understanding in the research of quantum computation.

Quantum information theory predicts that when the transmission resource is
doubled in quantum channels, the amount of information transmitted can be
increased more than twice by quantum channel coding technique, whereas the
increase is at most twice in classical information theory. This remarkable
feature, the superadditive quantum coding gain, can be implemented by
appropriate choices of code words and corresponding quantum decoding which
requires a collective quantum measurement. Recently, the first experimental
demonstration was reported [Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 167906 (2003)]. The purpose of
this paper is to describe our experiment in detail. Particularly, a design
strategy of quantum collective decoding in physical quantum circuits is
emphasized. We also address the practical implication of the gain on
communication performance by introducing the quantum-classical hybrid coding
scheme. We show how the superadditive quantum coding gain, even in a small code
length, can boost the communication performance of conventional coding
technique.

We propose an approach for quantifying a quantum circuit's quantumness as a
means to understand the nature of quantum algorithmic speedups. Since quantum
gates that do not preserve the computational basis are necessary for achieving
quantum speedups, it appears natural to define the quantumness of a quantum
circuit using the number of such gates. Intuitively, a reduction in the
quantumness requires an increase in the amount of classical computation, hence
giving a ``quantum and classical tradeoff''.
  In this paper we present two results on this direction. The first gives an
asymptotic answer to the question: ``what is the minimum number of
non-basis-preserving gates required to generate a good approximation to a given
state''. This question is the quantum analogy of the following classical
question, ``how many fair coins are needed to generate a given probability
distribution'', which was studied and resolved by Knuth and Yao in 1976. Our
second result shows that any quantum algorithm that solves Grover's Problem of
size n using k queries and l levels of non-basis-preserving gates must have
k*l=\Omega(n).

Quantum state sharing is a protocol where perfect reconstruction of quantum
states is achieved with incomplete or partial information in a multi-partite
quantum networks. Quantum state sharing allows for secure communication in a
quantum network where partial information is lost or acquired by malicious
parties. This protocol utilizes entanglement for the secret state distribution,
and a class of "quantum disentangling" protocols for the state reconstruction.
We demonstrate a quantum state sharing protocol in which a tripartite entangled
state is used to encode and distribute a secret state to three players. Any two
of these players can collaborate to reconstruct the secret state, whilst
individual players obtain no information. We investigate a number of quantum
disentangling processes and experimentally demonstrate quantum state
reconstruction using two of these protocols. We experimentally measure a
fidelity, averaged over all reconstruction permutations, of F = 0.73. A result
achievable only by using quantum resources.

Using the methods of quantum trajectories we investigate the effects of
dissipative decoherence in a quantum computer algorithm simulating dynamics in
various regimes of quantum chaos including dynamical localization, quantum
ergodic regime and quasi-integrable motion.
  As an example we use the quantum sawtooth algorithm which can be implemented
in a polynomial number of quantum gates.
  It is shown that the fidelity of quantum computation decays exponentially
with time and that the decay rate is proportional to the number of qubits,
number of quantum gates and per gate dissipation rate induced by external
decoherence.
  In the limit of strong dissipation the quantum algorithm generates a quantum
attractor which may have complex or simple structure.
  We also compare the effects of dissipative decoherence with the effects of
static imperfections.

Attention to the very physical aspects of information characterizes the
current research in quantum computation, quantum cryptography and quantum
communication. In most of the cases quantum description of the system provides
advantages over the classical approach. Game theory, the study of decision
making in conflict situation has already been extended to the quantum domain.
We would like to review the latest development in quantum game theory that is
relevant to information processing. We will begin by illustrating the general
idea of a quantum game and methods of gaining an advantage over
  "classical opponent". Then we review the most important game theoretical
aspects of quantum information processing. On grounds of the discussed
material, we reason about possible future development of quantum game theory
and its impact on information processing and the emerging information society.
The idea of quantum artificial intelligence is explained.

A brief presentation of the basic concepts in quantum probability theory is
given in comparison to the classical one. The notion of quantum white noise,
its explicit representation in Fock space, and necessary results of
noncommutative stochastic analysis and integration are outlined. Algebraic
differential equations that unify the quantum non Markovian diffusion with
continuous non demolition observation are derived. A stochastic equation of
quantum diffusion filtering generalising the classical Markov filtering
equation to the quantum flows over arbitrary *-algebra is obtained. A Gaussian
quantum diffusion with one dimensional continuous observation is considered.The
a posteriori quantum state difusion in this case is reduced to a linear quantum
stochastic filter equation of Kalman-Bucy type and to the operator Riccati
equation for quantum correlations. An example of continuous nondemolition
observation of the coordinate of a free quantum particle is considered,
describing a continuous collase to the stationary solution of the linear
quantum filtering problem found in the paper.

A quantum computer is a machine that can perform certain calculations much
faster than a classical computer by using the laws of quantum mechanics.
Quantum computers do not exist yet, because it is extremely difficult to
control quantum mechanical systems to the necessary degree. What is more, we do
at this moment not know which physical system is the best suited for making a
quantum computer (although we have some ideas). It is likely that a mature
quantum information processing technology will use (among others) light,
because photons are ideal carriers for quantum information. These notes are an
expanded version of the five lectures I gave on the possibility of making a
quantum computer using light, at the Summer School in Theoretical Physics in
Durban, 14-24 January, 2007. There are quite a few proposals using light for
quantum computing, and I can highlight only a few here. I will focus on
photonic qubits, and leave out continuous variables completely. I assume that
the reader is familiar with basic quantum mechanics and introductory quantum
computing.

The importance of quantum error correction in paving the way to build a
practical quantum computer is no longer in doubt. This dissertation makes a
threefold contribution to the mathematical theory of quantum error-correcting
codes. Firstly, it extends the framework of an important class of quantum codes
-- nonbinary stabilizer codes. It clarifies the connections of stabilizer codes
to classical codes over quadratic extension fields, provides many new
constructions of quantum codes, and develops further the theory of optimal
quantum codes and punctured quantum codes. Secondly, it contributes to the
theory of operator quantum error correcting codes also called as subsystem
codes. These codes are expected to have efficient error recovery schemes than
stabilizer codes. This dissertation develops a framework for study and analysis
of subsystem codes using character theoretic methods. In particular, this work
establishes a close link between subsystem codes and classical codes showing
that the subsystem codes can be constructed from arbitrary classical codes.
Thirdly, it seeks to exploit the knowledge of noise to design efficient quantum
codes and considers more realistic channels than the commonly studied
depolarizing channel. It gives systematic constructions of asymmetric quantum
stabilizer codes that exploit the asymmetry of errors in certain quantum
channels.

A quantum shift register circuit acts on a set of input qubits and memory
qubits, outputs a set of output qubits and updated memory qubits, and feeds the
memory back into the device for the next cycle (similar to the operation of a
classical shift register). Such a device finds application as an encoding and
decoding circuit for a particular type of quantum error-correcting code, called
a quantum convolutional code. Building on the Ollivier-Tillich and
Grassl-Roetteler encoding algorithms for quantum convolutional codes, I present
a method to determine a quantum shift register encoding circuit for a quantum
convolutional code. I also determine a formula for the amount of memory that a
CSS quantum convolutional code requires. I then detail primitive quantum shift
register circuits that realize all of the finite- and infinite-depth
transformations in the shift-invariant Clifford group (the class of
transformations important for encoding and decoding quantum convolutional
codes). The memory formula for a CSS quantum convolutional code then
immediately leads to a formula for the memory required by a CSS
entanglement-assisted quantum convolutional code.

We outline selected trends and results in theoretical modeling of quantum
systems in support of the developing research field of quantum information
processing. The resulting modeling tools have been applied to semiconductor
materials and nanostructures that show promise for implementation of coherent,
controlled quantum dynamics at the level of registers of several quantum bits
(qubits), such as spins. Many-body field-theoretical techniques have been
utilized to address a spectrum of diverse research topics. Specifically, the
theory of decoherence and more generally the origin and effects of quantum
noise and the loss of entanglement in quantum dynamics of qubits and
several-qubit registers has been advanced. Qubit coupling mechanisms via the
indirect exchange interaction have been investigated, and quantum computing
designs have been evaluated for scalability. We outline general and specific
research challenges, the solution of which will advance the field of modeling
"open quantum systems" to further our understanding of how environmental
influences affect quantum coherence and its loss during quantum dynamics.

Quantum entanglement is the quintessential characteristic of quantum
mechanics and the basis for quantum information processing. When one of two
maximally entangled particles is measured, without measurement the state of
another one is determined simultaneously no matter how far the two particles is
from each other. How can these phenomena take place since no object can move
faster than light speed in a vacuum? The key problem is due to the ignorance of
the interaction between a particle and a quantum vacuum. Just like the case
where a gun suffers recoil from its firing of a bullet, when a particle is
created from the quantum vacuum, the vacuum will be somewhat "broken"
correspondingly, which can be described by a shadow state in the vacuum.
Through their shadows in the vacuum two quantum entangled particles can have a
distance-independent instantaneous interaction with each other. Quantum
teleportation, quantum swap, and wave function collapse are explained in a
similar way. Quantum object can be interpreted as a composite made up of a
particle and the shadowed quantum vacuum which is responsible for the wave
characteristic of the particle wave duality. The quantum vacuum is not only the
origin of all possible kinds of particles, but also the origin and the core of
Eastern mystics.

We present a basic high-level structures used for developing quantum
programming languages. The presented structures are commonly used in many
existing quantum programming languages and we use quantum pseudo-code based on
QCL quantum programming language to describe them. We also present the
implementation of introduced structures in GNU Octave language for scientific
computing. Procedures used in the implementation are available as a package
quantum-octave, providing a library of functions, which facilitates the
simulation of quantum computing. This package allows also to incorporate
high-level programming concepts into the simulation in GNU Octave and Matlab.
As such it connects features unique for high-level quantum programming
languages, with the full palette of efficient computational routines commonly
available in modern scientific computing systems. To present the major features
of the described package we provide the implementation of selected quantum
algorithms. We also show how quantum errors can be taken into account during
the simulation of quantum algorithms using quantum-octave package. This is
possible thanks to the ability to operate on density matrices.

The results of local measurements on some composite quantum systems cannot be
reproduced classically. This impossibility, known as quantum nonlocality,
represents a milestone in the foundations of quantum theory. Quantum
nonlocality is also a valuable resource for information processing tasks, e.g.
quantum communication, quantum key distribution, quantum state estimation, or
randomness extraction. Still, deciding if a quantum state is nonlocal remains a
challenging problem. Here we introduce a novel approach to this question: we
study the nonlocal properties of quantum states when distributed and measured
in networks. Using our framework, we show how any one-way entanglement
distillable state leads to nonlocal correlations. Then, we prove that
nonlocality is a non-additive resource, which can be activated. There exist
states, local at the single-copy level, that become nonlocal when taking
several copies of it. Our results imply that the nonlocality of quantum states
strongly depends on the measurement context.

We analyze the recent examples of quantum semigroups defined by M.M. Sadr who
also brought up several open problems concerning these objects. These are
defined as quantum families of maps from finite sets to a fixed compact quantum
semigroup. We show that these are special cases of free products of quantum
semigroups. This way we can answer all the questions stated by M.M. Sadr. Along
the way we discuss the question whether restricting the comultiplication of a
compact quantum group to a unital $\mathrm{C}^*$-subalgebra defines such a
structure on the subalgebra. In the last section we show that the quantum
family of all maps from a non-classical finite quantum space to a quantum group
(even a finite classical group) might not admit any quantum group structure.

A quantum simulator is a device engineered to reproduce the properties of an
ideal quantum model. It allows the study of quantum systems that cannot be
efficiently simulated on classical computers. While a universal quantum
computer is also a quantum simulator, only particular systems have been
simulated up to now. Still, there is a wealth of successful cases, such as spin
models, quantum chemistry, relativistic quantum physics and quantum phase
transitions. Here, we show how to design a quantum simulator for the Majorana
equation, a non-Hamiltonian relativistic wave equation that might describe
neutrinos and other exotic particles beyond the standard model. The simulation
demands the implementation of charge conjugation, an unphysical operation that
opens a new front in quantum simulations, including the discrete symmetries
associated with complex conjugation and time reversal. Finally, we show how to
implement this general method in trapped ions.

Both classical and quantum computations operate with the registers of bits.
At nanometer scale the quantum fluctuations at the position of a given bit,
say, a quantum dot, not only lead to the decoherence of quantum state of this
bit, but also affect the quantum states of the neighboring bits, and therefore
affect the state of the whole register. That is why the requirement of reliable
separate access to each bit poses the limit on miniaturization, i.e, constrains
the memory capacity and the speed of computation. In the present paper we
suggest an algorithmic way to tackle the problem of constructing reliable and
compact registers of quantum bits. We suggest to access the states of quantum
register hierarchically, descending from the state of the whole register to the
states of its parts. Our method is similar to quantum wavelet transform, and
can be applied to information compression, quantum memory, quantum
computations.

Positivity of quantum discord is shown to be equivalent to the strong sub
additivity of the Von-Nuemann entropy. This leads to a connection between the
mother protocol of quantum information theory [A. Abeyesinghe, I. Devetak, P.
Hayden, and A. Winter, Proc. R. Soc. A 465, 2537, (2009)] and quantum discord.
We exploit this to show that quantum discord is a measure coherence in the
performance of the mother protocol. Since the mother protocol is a unification
of an important class of problems (those that are bipartite, unidirectional and
memoryless), we show quantum discord to be a measure of coherence in these
protocols. Our work generalizes an earlier operational interpretation of
quantum discord provided in terms of quantum state merging [V. Madhok and A.
Datta, Phys. Rev. A 83, 032323, (2011)].

We treat quantum counterparts of testing problems whose optimal tests are
given by chi-square, t and F tests. These quantum counterparts are formulated
as quantum hypothesis testing problems concerning quantum Gaussian states
families, and contain disturbance parameters, which have group symmetry.
Quantum Hunt-Stein Theorem removes a part of these disturbance parameters, but
other types of difficulty still remain. In order to remove them, combining
quantum Hunt-Stein theorem and other reduction methods, we establish a general
reduction theorem that reduces a complicated quantum hypothesis testing problem
to a fundamental quantum hypothesis testing problem. Using these methods, we
derive quantum counterparts of chi-square, t and F tests as optimal tests in
the respective settings.

Quantum discord is usually referred to as a measure for quantum correlations.
In the search of the fundamental resource to gain a quantum advantage in
quantum information applications, quantum discord is considered a promising
candidate. In this paper we present an alternative view on quantum correlations
in terms of the rank of the correlation matrix as introduced by Dakic, Vedral,
and Brukner [Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 190502 (2010)]. According to our analysis,
information about the quantum discord does not necessarily determine the amount
of quantum correlations but rather the quantumness of the state. Nonzero
quantum discord is only a necessary but not a sufficient condition for
correlations above the classically achievable limit. This becomes clear when we
consider states of nonzero discord, which can be created from zero discord
states only by a single local operation. We further show that the set of these
states has measure zero.

Quantum annealing method has been widely attracted attention in statistical
physics and information science since it is expected to be a powerful method to
obtain the best solution of optimization problem as well as simulated
annealing. The quantum annealing method was incubated in quantum statistical
physics. This is an alternative method of the simulated annealing which is
well-adopted for many optimization problems. In the simulated annealing, we
obtain a solution of optimization problem by decreasing temperature (thermal
fluctuation) gradually. In the quantum annealing, in contrast, we decrease
quantum field (quantum fluctuation) gradually and obtain a solution. In this
paper we review how to implement quantum annealing and show some quantum
fluctuation effects in frustrated Ising spin systems.

Although the security of quantum cryptography is provable based on the
principles of quantum mechanics, it can be compromised by the flaws in the
design of quantum protocols and the noise in their physical implementations.
So, it is indispensable to develop techniques of verifying and debugging
quantum cryptographic systems. Model-checking has proved to be effective in the
verification of classical cryptographic protocols, but an essential difficulty
arises when it is applied to quantum systems: the state space of a quantum
system is always a continuum even when its dimension is finite. To overcome
this difficulty, we introduce a novel notion of quantum Markov chain, specially
suited to model quantum cryptographic protocols, in which quantum effects are
entirely encoded into super-operators labelling transitions, leaving the
location information (nodes) being classical. Then we define a quantum
extension of probabilistic computation tree logic (PCTL) and develop a
model-checking algorithm for quantum Markov chains.

A system of quantum computing structures is introduced and proven capable of
making emerge, on average, the orbits of classical bounded nonlinear maps on
\mathbb{C} through the iterative action of path-dependent quantum gates. The
effects of emerging nonlinear dynamics and chaos upon the quantum averages of
relevant observables and quantum probabilities are exemplified for a version of
Chirikov's standard map on \mathbb{C} . Both the individual orbits and ensemble
properties are addressed so that the Poincar\'e map for Chirikov's standard
map, in the current quantum setting, is reinterpreted in terms of a quantum
ensemble which is then formally introduced within the formalized system of
quantum computing structures, in terms of quantum register machines, revealing
three phases of quantum ensemble dynamics: the regular, the chaotic and an
intermediate phase called complex quantum stochastic phase which shares
similarities to the edge of chaos notion from classical cellular automata and
classical random boolean networks' evolutionary computation.

The ground state of a quantum spin chain is a natural playground for
investigating correlations. Nevertheless, not all correlations are genuinely of
quantum nature. Here we review the recent progress to quantify the
'quantumness' of the correlations throughout the phase diagram of quantum spin
systems. Focusing to one spatial dimension, we discuss the behavior of quantum
discord close to quantum phase transitions. In contrast to the two-spin
entanglement, pairwise discord is effectively long-ranged in critical regimes.
Besides the features of quantum phase transitions, quantum discord is
especially feasible to explore the factorization phenomenon, giving rise to
nontrivial ground classical states in quantum systems. The effects of
spontaneous symmetry breaking are also discussed as well as the identification
of quantum critical points through correlation witnesses.

Can a classical system command a general adversarial quantum system to
realize arbitrary quantum dynamics? If so, then we could realize the dream of
device-independent quantum cryptography: using untrusted quantum devices to
establish a shared random key, with security based on the correctness of
quantum mechanics. It would also allow for testing whether a claimed quantum
computer is truly quantum. Here we report a technique by which a classical
system can certify the joint, entangled state of a bipartite quantum system, as
well as command the application of specific operators on each subsystem. This
is accomplished by showing a strong converse to Tsirelson's optimality result
for the Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt (CHSH) game: the only way to win many games
is if the bipartite state is close to the tensor product of EPR states, and the
measurements are the optimal CHSH measurements on successive qubits. This leads
directly to a scheme for device-independent quantum key distribution. Control
over the state and operators can also be leveraged to create more elaborate
protocols for realizing general quantum circuits, and to establish that QMIP =
MIP*.

Quantum entanglement is a key resource in many quantum protocols, such as
quantum teleportation and quantum cryptography. Yet entanglement makes
protocols presented in Dirac notation difficult to verify. This is why Coecke
and Duncan have introduced a diagrammatic language for quantum protocols,
called the ZX-calculus. This diagrammatic notation is both intuitive and
formally rigorous. It is a simple, graphical, high level language that
emphasises the composition of systems and naturally captures the essentials of
quantum mechanics. In the author's MSc thesis it has been shown for over 25
quantum protocols that the ZX-calculus provides a relatively easy and more
intuitive presentation. Moreover, the author embarked on the task to apply
categorical quantum mechanics on quantum security; earlier works did not touch
anything but Bennett and Brassard's quantum key distribution protocol, BB84.
Superdense coding with the Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger state and quantum key
distribution with the W-state are presented in the ZX-calculus in this paper.

Quantum coherence is one of the primary non-classical features of quantum
systems. While protocols such as the Leggett-Garg inequality (LGI) and quantum
tomography can be used to test for the existence of quantum coherence and
dynamics in a given system, unambiguously detecting inherent "quantumness"
still faces serious obstacles in terms of experimental feasibility and
efficiency, particularly in complex systems. Here we introduce two "quantum
witnesses" to efficiently verify quantum coherence and dynamics in the time
domain, without the expense and burden of non-invasive measurements or full
tomographic processes. Using several physical examples, including quantum
transport in solid-state nanostructures and in biological organisms, we show
that these quantum witnesses are robust and have a much finer resolution in
their detection window than the LGI has. These robust quantum indicators may
assist in reducing the experimental overhead in unambiguously verifying quantum
coherence in complex systems.

Quantum technologies rely on the ability to coherently manipulate, process
and transfer information, encoded in quantum states, along quantum channels.
Decoherence induced by the environment introduces errors, thus setting limits
on the efficiency of any quantum-enhanced protocol or device. A fundamental
bound on the ability of a noisy quantum channel to transmit quantum (classical)
information is given by its quantum (classical) capacity. Generally, the longer
is a quantum channel the more are the introduced errors, and hence the worse is
its capacity. In this Letter we show that for non-Markovian quantum channels
this is not always true: surprisingly the capacity of a longer channel can be
greater than the one of a shorter channel. We introduce a general theoretical
framework linking non-Markovianity to the capacities of quantum channels, and
demonstrate in full generality how harnessing non-Markovianity may improve the
efficiency of quantum information processing and communication.

Active quantum error correction using qubit stabilizer codes has emerged as a
promising, but experimentally challenging, engineering program for building a
universal quantum computer. In this review we consider the formalism of qubit
stabilizer and subsystem stabilizer codes and their possible use in protecting
quantum information in a quantum memory. We review the theory of
fault-tolerance and quantum error-correction, discuss examples of various codes
and code constructions, the general quantum error correction conditions, the
noise threshold, the special role played by Clifford gates and the route
towards fault-tolerant universal quantum computation. The second part of the
review is focused on providing an overview of quantum error correction using
two-dimensional (topological) codes, in particular the surface code
architecture. We discuss the complexity of decoding and the notion of passive
or self-correcting quantum memories. The review does not focus on a particular
technology but discusses topics that will be relevant for various quantum
technologies.

We begin by discussing the history of quantum logic, dividing it into three
eras or lives. The first life has to do with Birkhoff and von Neumann's
algebraic approach in the 1930's. The second life has to do with attempt to
understand quantum logic as logic that began in the late 1950's and blossomed
in the 1970's. And the third life has to do with recent developments in quantum
logic coming from its connections to quantum computation. We discuss our own
work connecting quantum logic to quantum computation (viewing quantum logic as
the logic of quantum registers storing qubits), and make some speculations
about mathematics based on quantum principles.

Encoding information in quantum systems can offer surprising advantages but
at the same time there are limitations that arise from the fact that measuring
an observable may disturb the state of the quantum system. In our work, we
provide an in-depth analysis of a simple question: What happens when we perform
two measurements sequentially on the same quantum system? This question touches
upon some fundamental properties of quantum mechanics, namely the uncertainty
principle and the complementarity of quantum measurements. Our results have
interesting consequences, for example they can provide a simple proof of the
optimal quantum strategy in the famous Clauser-Horne-Shimony-Holt game.
Moreover, we show that the way information is encoded in quantum systems can
provide a different perspective in understanding other fundamental aspects of
quantum information, like non-locality and quantum cryptography. We prove some
strong equivalences between these notions and provide a number of applications
in all areas.

The quantum capacity of degradable quantum channels has been proven to be
additive. On the other hand, there is no general rule for the behavior of
quantum capacity for non-degradable quantum channels. We introduce the set of
partially degradable (PD) quantum channels to answer the question of additivity
of quantum capacity for a well-separable subset of non-degradable channels. A
quantum channel is partially degradable if the channel output can be used to
simulate the degraded environment state. PD channels could exist both in the
degradable, non-degradable and conjugate degradable family. We define the term
partial simulation, which is a clear benefit that arises from the structure of
the complementary channel of a PD channel. We prove that the quantum capacity
of an arbitrary dimensional PD channel is additive. We also demonstrate that
better quantum data rates can be achieved over a PD channel in comparison to
standard (non-PD) channels. Our results indicate that the partial degradability
property can be exploited and yet still hold many benefits for quantum
communications.

An optical quantum memory can be broadly defined as a system capable of
storing a useful quantum state through interaction with light at optical
frequencies. During the last decade, intense research was devoted to their
development, mostly with the aim of fulfilling the requirements of their first
two applications, namely quantum repeaters and linear-optical quantum
computation. A better understanding of those requirements then motivated
several different experimental approaches. Along the way, other exciting
applications emerged, such as as quantum metrology, single-photon detection,
tests of the foundations of quantum physics, device-independent quantum
information processing and nonlinear processing of quantum information. Here we
review several prospective applications of optical quantum memories with a
focus on recent experimental achievements pertaining to these applications.
This review highlights that optical quantum memories have become essential for
the development of optical quantum information processing.

Simulating quantum mechanics is known to be a difficult computational
problem, especially when dealing with large systems. However, this difficulty
may be overcome by using some controllable quantum system to study another less
controllable or accessible quantum system, i.e., quantum simulation. Quantum
simulation promises to have applications in the study of many problems in,
e.g., condensed-matter physics, high-energy physics, atomic physics, quantum
chemistry and cosmology. Quantum simulation could be implemented using quantum
computers, but also with simpler, analog devices that would require less
control, and therefore, would be easier to construct. A number of quantum
systems such as neutral atoms, ions, polar molecules, electrons in
semiconductors, superconducting circuits, nuclear spins and photons have been
proposed as quantum simulators. This review outlines the main theoretical and
experimental aspects of quantum simulation and emphasizes some of the
challenges and promises of this fast-growing field.

In quantum-state tomography on sources with quantum degrees of freedom of
large Hilbert spaces, inference of quantum states of light for instance, a
complete characterization of the quantum states for these sources is often not
feasible owing to limited resources. As such, the concepts of informationally
incomplete state estimation becomes important. These concepts are ideal for
applications to quantum channel/process tomography, which typically requires a
much larger number of measurement settings for a full characterization of a
quantum channel. Some key aspects of both quantum-state and quantum-process
tomography are arranged together in the form of a tutorial review article that
is catered to students and researchers who are new to the field of quantum
tomography, with focus on maximum-likelihood related techniques as instructive
examples to illustrate these ideas.

The concept of the quantum Pfaffian is rigorously examined and refurbished
using the new method of quantum exterior algebras. We derive a complete family
of Pl\"ucker relations for the quantum linear transformations, and then use
them to give an optimal set of relations required for the quantum Pfaffian. We
then give the formula between the quantum determinant and the quantum Pfaffian
and prove that any quantum determinant can be expressed as a quantum Pfaffian.
Finally the quantum hyper-Pfaffian is introduced, and we prove a similar result
of expressing quantum determinants in terms of quantum hyper-Pfaffians at
modular cases.

Quantum communication holds promise for unconditionally secure transmission
of secret messages and faithful transfer of unknown quantum states. Photons
appear to be the medium of choice for quantum communication. Owing to photon
losses, robust quantum communication over long lossy channels requires quantum
repeaters. It is widely believed that a necessary and highly demanding
requirement for quantum repeaters is the existence of matter quantum memories
at the repeater nodes. Here we show that such a requirement is, in fact,
unnecessary by introducing the concept of all photonic quantum repeaters based
on flying qubits. As an example of the realization of this concept, we present
a protocol based on photonic cluster state machine guns and a loss-tolerant
measurement equipped with local high-speed active feedforwards. We show that,
with such an all photonic quantum repeater, the communication efficiency still
scales polynomially with the channel distance. Our result paves a new route
toward quantum repeaters with efficient single-photon sources rather than
matter quantum memories.

Quantum ensemble classification has significant applications in
discrimination of atoms (or molecules), separation of isotopic molecules and
quantum information extraction. However, quantum mechanics forbids
deterministic discrimination among nonorthogonal states. The classification of
inhomogeneous quantum ensembles is very challenging since there exist
variations in the parameters characterizing the members within different
classes. In this paper, we recast quantum ensemble classification as a
supervised quantum learning problem. A systematic classification methodology is
presented by using a sampling-based learning control (SLC) approach for quantum
discrimination. The classification task is accomplished via simultaneously
steering members belonging to different classes to their corresponding target
states (e.g., mutually orthogonal states). Firstly a new discrimination method
is proposed for two similar quantum systems. Then an SLC method is presented
for quantum ensemble classification. Numerical results demonstrate the
effectiveness of the proposed approach for the binary classification of
two-level quantum ensembles and the multiclass classification of multilevel
quantum ensembles.

Quantum computers promise dramatic advantages over their classical
counterparts, but the answer to the most basic question "What is the source of
the power in quantum computing?" has remained elusive. Here we prove a
remarkable equivalence between the onset of contextuality and the possibility
of universal quantum computation via magic state distillation. This is a
conceptually satisfying link because contextuality provides one of the
fundamental characterizations of uniquely quantum phenomena and, moreover,
magic state distillation is the leading model for experimentally realizing
fault-tolerant quantum computation. Furthermore, this connection suggests a
unifying paradigm for the resources of quantum information: the nonlocality of
quantum theory is a particular kind of contextuality and nonlocality is already
known to be a critical resource for achieving advantages with quantum
communication. In addition to clarifying these fundamental issues, this work
advances the resource framework for quantum computation, which has a number of
practical applications, such as characterizing the efficiency and trade-offs
between distinct theoretical and experimental schemes for achieving robust
quantum computation and bounding the overhead cost for the classical simulation
of quantum algorithms.

We investigate theoretically the slowdown of optical pulses due to
quantum-coherence effects in InGaAs-based quantum dots and quantum dot
molecules. Simple models for the electronic structure of quantum dots and, in
particular, quantum-dot molecules are described and calibrated using numerical
simulations. It is shown how these models can be used to design optimized
quantum-dot molecules for quantum coherence applications. The wave functions
and energies obtained from the optimizations are used as input for a
microscopic calculation of the quantum-dot material dynamics including carrier
scattering and polarization dephasing. The achievable group velocity slowdown
in quantum-coherence V schemes consisting of quantum-dot molecule states is
shown to be substantially higher than what is achievable from similar
transitions in typical InGaAs-based single quantum dots.

Quantum resources,such as discord and entanglement, are crucial in quantum
information processing. In this paper, quantum resources are studied from the
aspect of quantum state superposition. We define the local superposition (LS)
as the superposition between basis of single part, and nonlocal superposition
(NLS) as the superposition between product basis of multiple parts. For quantum
resource with nonzero LS, quantum operation must be introduced to prepare it,
and for quantum resource with nonzero NLS, nonlocal quantum operation must be
introduced to prepare it. We prove that LS vanishes if and only if the state is
classical and NLS vanishes if and only if the state is separable. From this
superposition aspect, quantum resources are categorized as superpositions
existing in different parts. These results are helpful to study quantum
resources from a unified frame.

Quantum feedback networks have been introduced in quantum optics as a set of
rules for constructing arbitrary networks of quantum mechanical systems
connected by uni-directional quantum optical fields, and has allowed for a
system theoretic approach to open quantum optics systems. Our aim here is to
establish a network theory for quantum transport systems where typically the
mediating fields between systems are bi-directional. Mathematically this leads
us to study quantum feedback networks where fields arrive at ports in
input-output pairs, which is then just a specially case of the uni-directional
theory. However, it is conceptually important to develop this theory in the
context of quantum transport theory, and the resulting theory extends
traditional approaches which tends to view the components in quantum transport
as scatterers for the various fields, in the process allows us to consider
emission and absorption of field quanta by these components. The quantum
feedback network theory is applicable to both Bose and Fermi fields, moreover
it applies to nonlinear dynamics for the component systems. In this first paper
on the subject, we advance the general theory, but study the case of linear
passive quantum components in some detail.

Feedback is the core concept in cybernetics and its effective use has made
great success in but not limited to the fields of engineering, biology, and
computer science. When feedback is used to quantum systems, two major types of
feedback control protocols including coherent feedback control (CFC) and
measurement-based feedback control (MFC) have been developed. In this paper, we
compare the two types of quantum feedback control protocols by focusing on the
real-time information used in the feedback loop and the capability in dealing
with parameter uncertainty. An equivalent relationship is established between
quantum CFC and non-selective quantum MFC in the form of operator-sum
representation. Using several examples of quantum feedback control, we show
that quantum MFC can theoretically achieve better performance than quantum CFC
in stabilizing a quantum state and dealing with Hamiltonian parameter
uncertainty. The results enrich understanding of the relative advantages
between quantum MFC and quantum CFC, and can provide useful information in
choosing suitable feedback protocols for quantum systems.

This paper is concerned with application of the classical Youla-Ku\v{c}era
parameterization to finding a set of linear coherent quantum controllers that
stabilize a linear quantum plant. The plant and controller are assumed to
represent open quantum harmonic oscillators modelled by linear quantum
stochastic differential equations. The interconnections between the plant and
the controller are assumed to be established through quantum bosonic fields. In
this framework, conditions for the stabilization of a given linear quantum
plant via linear coherent quantum feedback are addressed using a stable
factorization approach. The class of stabilizing quantum controllers is
parameterized in the frequency domain. Also, this approach is used in order to
formulate coherent quantum weighted $H_2$ and $H_\infty$ control problems for
linear quantum systems in the frequency domain. Finally, a projected gradient
descent scheme is proposed to solve the coherent quantum weighted $H_2$ control
problem.

Numerical methods for the 1-D Dirac equation based on operator splitting and
on the quantum lattice Boltzmann (QLB) schemes are reviewed. It is shown that
these discretizations fall within the class of quantum walks, i.e. discrete
maps for complex fields, whose continuum limit delivers Dirac-like relativistic
quantum wave equations. The correspondence between the quantum walk dynamics
and these numerical schemes is given explicitly, allowing a connection between
quantum computations, numerical analysis and lattice Boltzmann methods. The QLB
method is then extended to the Dirac equation in curved spaces and it is
demonstrated that the quantum walk structure is preserved. Finally, it is
argued that the existence of this link between the discretized Dirac equation
and quantum walks may be employed to simulate relativistic quantum dynamics on
quantum computers.

Quantum simulation is of great importance in quantum information science.
Here, we report an experimental quantum channel simulator imbued with an
algorithm for imitating the behavior of a general class of quantum systems. The
reported quantum channel simulator consists of four single-qubit gates and one
controlled-NOT gate. All types of quantum channels can be decomposed by the
algorithm and implemented on this device. We deploy our system to simulate
various quantum channels, such as quantum-noise channels and weak quantum
measurement. Our results advance experimental quantum channel simulation, which
is integral to the goal of quantum information processing.

In this paper, we study a model of quantum Markov chains that is a quantum
analogue of Markov chains and is obtained by replacing probabilities in
transition matrices with quantum operations. We show that this model is very
suited to describe hybrid systems that consist of a quantum component and a
classical one, although it has the same expressive power as another quantum
Markov model proposed in the literature.
  Indeed, hybrid systems are often encountered in quantum information
processing; for example, both quantum programs and quantum protocols can be
regarded as hybrid systems. Thus, we further propose a model called hybrid
quantum automata (HQA) that can be used to describe these hybrid systems that
receive inputs (actions) from the outer world. We show the language equivalence
problem of HQA is decidable in polynomial time. Furthermore, we apply this
result to the trace equivalence problem of quantum Markov chains, and thus it
is also decidable in polynomial time. Finally, we discuss model checking
linear-time properties of quantum Markov chains, and show the quantitative
analysis of regular safety properties can be addressed successfully.

Quantum gravity remains an elusive theory, in spite of our thorough
understanding of the quantum theory and the general theory of relativity
separately, presumably due to the lack of any observational clues. We argue
that the theory of quantum gravity has a strong constraining anchor in the
sector of gravitational radiation ensuring reliable physical clues, albeit in a
limited observable form. In particular, all types of gravitational waves
expected to be observable in LIGO-like advanced detectors are fully quantum
mechanical states of radiation. Exact equivalence of the full quantum gravity
theory with the familiar semiclassical theory is ensured in the radiation
sector, in most real situations where the relevant quantum operator functions
are normal ordered, by the analogue of the optical equivalence theorem in
quantum optics. We show that this is indeed the case for detection of the waves
from a massive binary system, a single gravitational atom, that emits coherent
radiation. The idea of quantum-gravitational optics can assist in guiding along
the fuzzy roads to quantum gravity.

Quantum coherence is a basic feature of quantum physics. Combined with tensor
product structure of state space, it gives rise to the novel concepts such as
entanglement and quantum correlations, which play a crucial role in quantum
information processing tasks. However, quantum correlations, especially
entanglement, are fragile under decoherence. In this context, very few
investigations have touched on the production of quantum coherence by quantum
operations. In this paper, we study cohering power -- the ability of quantum
operations to produce coherence. First, we provide an operational
interpretation of cohering power. Then, we decompose a generic quantum
operation into three basic operations, namely, unitary, appending and dismissal
operations, and show that the cohering power of any quantum operation is upper
bounded by the corresponding unitary operation. Furthermore, we compare
cohering power and generalized cohering power of quantum operations for
different measures of coherence.

Gaussian quantum systems exhibit many explicitly quantum effects but can be
simulated classically. Using both the Hilbert space (Koopman) and the
phase-space (Moyal) formalisms we investigate how robust this classicality is.
We find failures of consistency of the dynamics of a hybrid classical-quantum
systems from both perspectives. By demanding that no unobservable operators
couple to the quantum sector in the Koopmanian formalism, we show that the
classical equations of motion act on their quantum counterparts without
experiencing any back-reaction, resulting in non-conservation of energy in the
quantum system. Using the phase-space formalism we study the short time
evolution of the moment equations of a hybrid classical-Gaussian quantum system
and observe violations of the Heisenberg Uncertainty Relation in the quantum
sector for a broad range of initial conditions. We estimate the time scale for
these violations, which is generically rather short. This inconsistency
indicates that while many explicitly quantum effects can be represented
classically, quantum aspects of the system cannot be fully masked. We comment
on the implications of our results for quantum gravity.

The random walk formalism is used across a wide range of applications, from
modelling share prices to predicting population genetics. Likewise quantum
walks have shown much potential as a frame- work for developing new quantum
algorithms. In this paper, we present explicit efficient quantum circuits for
implementing continuous-time quantum walks on the circulant class of graphs.
These circuits allow us to sample from the output probability distributions of
quantum walks on circulant graphs efficiently. We also show that solving the
same sampling problem for arbitrary circulant quantum circuits is intractable
for a classical computer, assuming conjectures from computational complexity
theory. This is a new link between continuous-time quantum walks and
computational complexity theory and it indicates a family of tasks which could
ultimately demonstrate quantum supremacy over classical computers. As a proof
of principle we have experimentally implemented the proposed quantum circuit on
an example circulant graph using a two-qubit photonics quantum processor.

Recent tremendous development of quantum information theory led to a number
of quantum technological projects, e.g., quantum random generators. This
development stimulates a new wave of interest in quantum foundations. One of
the most intriguing problems of quantum foundations is elaboration of a
consistent and commonly accepted interpretation of quantum state. Closely
related problem is clarification of the notion of quantum randomness and its
interrelation with classical randomness. In this short review we shall discuss
basics of classical theory of randomness (which by itself is very complex and
characterized by diversity of approaches) and compare it with irreducible
quantum randomness. The second part of this review is devoted to the
information interpretation of quantum mechanics (QM) in the spirit of Zeilinger
and Brukner (and QBism of Fuchs et al.) and physics in general (e.g., Wheeler's
"it from bit") as well as digital philosophy of Chaitin (with historical
coupling to ideas of Leibnitz). Finally, we continue discussion on
interrelation of quantum and classical randomness and information
interpretation of QM.

Analyzing some well established facts, we give a model-independent
parameterization of black hole quantum computing in terms of a set of macro and
micro quantities and their relations. These include the relations between the
extraordinarily-small energy gap of black hole qubits and important time-scales
of information-processing, such as, scrambling time and Page's time. We then
show, confirming and extending previous results, that other systems of nature
with identical quantum informatics features are attractive Bose-Einstein
systems at the critical point of quantum phase transition. Here we establish a
complete isomorphy between the quantum computational properties of these two
systems. In particular, we show that the quantum hair of a critical condensate
is strikingly similar to the quantum hair of a black hole. Irrespectively
whether one takes the similarity between the two systems as a remarkable
coincidence or as a sign of a deeper underlying connection, the following is
evident. Black holes are not unique in their way of quantum information
processing and we can manufacture black hole based quantum computers in labs by
taking advantage of quantum criticality.

Quantum-mechanical devices have the potential to transform cryptography. Most
research in this area has focused either on the information-theoretic
advantages of quantum protocols or on the security of classical cryptographic
schemes against quantum attacks. In this work, we initiate the study of another
relevant topic: the encryption of quantum data in the computational setting.
  In this direction, we establish quantum versions of several fundamental
classical results. First, we develop natural definitions for private-key and
public-key encryption schemes for quantum data. We then define notions of
semantic security and indistinguishability, and, in analogy with the classical
work of Goldwasser and Micali, show that these notions are equivalent. Finally,
we construct secure quantum encryption schemes from basic primitives. In
particular, we show that quantum-secure one-way functions imply IND-CCA1-secure
symmetric-key quantum encryption, and that quantum-secure trapdoor one-way
permutations imply semantically-secure public-key quantum encryption.

We review the general strategy of topologically protected quantum information
processing based on non-Abelian anyons, in which quantum information is encoded
into the fusion channels of pairs of anyons and in fusion paths for multi-anyon
states, realized in two-dimensional fractional quantum Hall systems. The
quantum gates which are needed for the quantum information processing in these
multi-qubit registers are implemented by exchange or braiding of the
non-Abelian anyons that are at fixed positions in two-dimensional coordinate
space. As an example we consider the Pfaffian topological quantum computer
based on the fractional quantum Hall state with filling factor $\nu_H=5/2$. The
elementary qubits are constructed by localizing Ising anyons on fractional
quantum Hall antidots and various quantum gates, such as the Hadamard gate,
phase gates and CNOT, are explicitly realized by braiding. We also discuss the
appropriate experimental signatures which could eventually be used to detect
non-Abelian anyons in Coulomb blockaded quantum Hall islands.

Unknown quantum information cannot be perfectly copied (cloned). This
statement is the bedrock of quantum technologies and quantum cryptography,
including the seminal scheme of Wiesner's quantum money, which was the first
quantum-cryptographic proposal. Surprisingly, to our knowledge, quantum money
has not been tested experimentally yet. Here, we experimentally revisit the
Wiesner idea, assuming a banknote to be an image encoded in the polarization
states of single photons. We demonstrate that it is possible to use quantum
states to prepare a banknote that cannot be ideally copied without making the
owner aware of only unauthorized actions. We provide the security conditions
for quantum money by investigating the physically-achievable limits on the
fidelity of 1-to-2 copying of arbitrary sequences of qubits. These results can
be applied as a security measure in quantum digital right management.

The quantum internet holds promise for performing quantum communication, such
as quantum teleportation and quantum key distribution, freely between any
parties all over the globe. For such a quantum internet protocol, a general
fundamental upper bound on the performance has been derived [K. Azuma, A.
Mizutani, and H.-K. Lo, arXiv:1601.02933]. Here we consider its converse
problem. In particular, we present a protocol constructible from any given
quantum network, which is based on running quantum repeater schemes in parallel
over the network. The performance of this protocol and the upper bound restrict
the quantum capacity and the private capacity over the network from both sides.
The optimality of the protocol is related to fundamental problems such as
additivity questions for quantum channels and questions on the existence of a
gap between quantum and private capacities.

The question whether quantum mechanics is complete and the nature of the
transition between quantum mechanics and classical mechanics have intrigued
physicists for decades. There have been many experimental breakthroughs in
creating larger and larger quantum superposition and entangled states since
Erwin Schr\"odinger proposed his famous thought experiment of putting a cat in
a superposition of both alive and dead states in 1935. Remarkably, recent
developments in quantum optomechanics and electromechanics may lead to the
realization of quantum superposition of living microbes soon. Recent evidence
also suggests that quantum coherence may play an important role in several
biological processes. In this review, we first give a brief introduction to
basic concepts in quantum mechanics and the Schr\"odinger's cat thought
experiment. We then review developments in creating quantum superposition and
entangled states and the realization of quantum teleportation. Non-trivial
quantum effects in photosynthetic light harvesting and avian magnetoreception
are also discussed. At last, we review recent proposals to realize quantum
superposition, entanglement and state teleportation of microorganisms, such as
viruses and bacteria.

The purpose of the paper is mainly to investigate the quantum critical
behavior of two-dimensional XY spin system by calculating quantum correlation
and monogamy relation through implementation of quantum renormalization group
theory. Numerical analysis indicates that quantum correlation as well as
quantum nonlocality can be used to efficiently detect the quantum critical
property in two-dimensional XY spin system. The nonanalytic behavior of the
first derivative of quantum correlation approaches infinity and the critical
point is reached as the size of the model increases. Furthermore, we discuss
the quantum correlation distribution in this model based on square of
concurrence (SC) and square of quantum discord (SQD). The monogamous properties
of SC and SQD are obtained for the present system. We finally reveal that the
monogamy score can be used to capture the quantum critical point.

Quantum coherence, incompatibility, and quantum correlations are fundamental
features of quantum physics. A unified view of those features is crucial for
revealing quantitatively their intrinsic connections. We define the relative
quantum coherence of two states as the coherence of one state in the reference
basis spanned by the eigenvectors of another one and establish its quantitative
connections with the extent of mutual incompatibility of two states. We also
show that the proposed relative quantum coherence, which can take any form of
measures such as $l_1$ norm and relative entropy, can be interpreted as or
connected to various quantum correlations such as quantum discord, symmetric
discord, entanglement of formation, and quantum deficits. Our results reveal
conceptual implications and basic connections of quantum coherence, mutual
incompatibility, and quantum correlations.

The promise of quantum neural nets, which utilize quantum effects to model
complex data sets, has made their development an aspirational goal for quantum
machine learning and quantum computing in general. Here we provide new methods
of training quantum Boltzmann machines, which are a class of recurrent quantum
neural network. Our work generalizes existing methods and provides new
approaches for training quantum neural networks that compare favorably to
existing methods. We further demonstrate that quantum Boltzmann machines enable
a form of quantum state tomography that not only estimates a state but provides
a perscription for generating copies of the reconstructed state. Classical
Boltzmann machines are incapable of this. Finally we compare small
non-stoquastic quantum Boltzmann machines to traditional Boltzmann machines for
generative tasks and observe evidence that quantum models outperform their
classical counterparts.

Quantum discord refers to an important aspect of quantum correlations for
bipartite quantum systems. In our earlier works we have shown that
corresponding to every graph (combinatorial) there are quantum states whose
properties are reflected in the structure of the corresponding graph. Here, we
attempt to develop a graph theoretic study of quantum discord that corresponds
to a necessary and sufficient condition of zero quantum discord states which
says that the blocks of density matrix corresponding to a zero quantum discord
state are normal and commute with each other. These blocks have a one to one
correspondence with some specific subgraphs of the graph which represents the
quantum state. We obtain a number of graph theoretic properties representing
normality and commutativity of a set of matrices which are indeed arising from
the given graph. Utilizing these properties we define graph theoretic measures
for normality and commutativity that results a formulation of graph theoretic
quantum discord. We identify classes of quantum states with zero discord using
the said formulation.

Semi-quantum protocols that allow some of the users to remain classical are
proposed for a large class of problems associated with secure communication and
secure multiparty computation. Specifically, first time semi-quantum protocols
are proposed for key agreement, controlled deterministic secure communication
and dialogue, and it is shown that the semi-quantum protocols for controlled
deterministic secure communication and dialogue can be reduced to semi-quantum
protocols for e-commerce and private comparison (socialist millionaire
problem), respectively. Complementing with the earlier proposed semi-quantum
schemes for key distribution, secret sharing and deterministic secure
communication, set of schemes proposed here and subsequent discussions have
established that almost every secure communication and computation tasks that
can be performed using fully quantum protocols can also be performed in
semi-quantum manner. Further, it addresses a fundamental question in context of
a large number problems- how much quantumness is (how many quantum parties are)
required to perform a specific secure communication task? Some of the proposed
schemes are completely orthogonal-state-based, and thus, fundamentally
different from the existing semi-quantum schemes that are
conjugate-coding-based. Security, efficiency and applicability of the proposed
schemes have been discussed with appropriate importance.

Quantum coherence as an important quantum resource plays a key role in
quantum theory. In this paper, using entropy-based measures, we investigate the
relations between quantum correlated coherence, which is the coherence between
subsystems [K. C. Tan, H. Kwon, C. Y. Park, and H. Jeong, Phys. Rev. A 94,
022329 (2016)], and two main kinds of quantum correlations as defined by
quantum discord as well as quantum entanglement. In particular, we show that
quantum discord and quantum entanglement can be well characterized by quantum
correlated coherence. Moreover, we prove that the entanglement measure
formulated by quantum correlated coherence is lower and upper bounded by the
relative entropy of entanglement and the entanglement of formation,
respectively, and equal to the relative entropy of entanglement for maximally
correlated states.

This paper is concerned with a linear fractional representation approach to
the synthesis of linear coherent quantum controllers for a given linear quantum
plant. The plant and controller represent open quantum harmonic oscillators and
are modelled by linear quantum stochastic differential equations. The feedback
interconnections between the plant and the controller are assumed to be
established through quantum bosonic fields. In this framework, conditions for
the stabilization of a given linear quantum plant via linear coherent quantum
feedback are addressed using a stable factorization approach. The class of all
stabilizing quantum controllers is parameterized in the frequency domain.
Coherent quantum weighted H_2 and H_\infty control problems for linear quantum
systems are formulated in the frequency domain. Finally, a projected gradient
descent scheme is outlined for the coherent quantum weighted H_2 control
problem.

The number of measurements required to reconstruct the states of quantum
systems increases exponentially with the quantum system dimensions, which makes
the state reconstruction of high-qubit quantum systems have a great challenge
in physical quantum computing experiments. Compressive sensing (CS) has been
verified as a effective technique in the reconstruction of quantum state,
however, it is still unknown that if CS can reconstruct quantum states given
the less data measured by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). In this paper, we
propose an effective NMR quantum state reconstruction method based on CS.
Different from the conventional CS-based quantum state reconstruction, our
method uses the actual observation data from NMR experiments rather than the
data measured by the Pauli operators. We implement measurements on quantum
states in practical NMR computing experiments and reconstruct states of 2,3,4
qubits using fewer number of measurements, respectively. The proposed method is
easy to implement and performs more efficiently with the increase of the system
dimension size. The performance reveals both efficiency and accuracy, which
provides an alternative for the quantum state reconstruction in practical NMR.

Quantum interface links stationary qubits in quantum memory with flying
photonic qubits in optical transmission channels and constitutes a critical
element for future quantum internet. Entanglement of quantum interfaces is a
key step for realization of quantum networks. Through heralded detection of
photon interference, here we generate multipartite entanglement between 25 (or
9) individually addressable quantum interfaces in a multiplexed atomic quantum
memory array and confirm genuine 22 (or 9) partite entanglement, respectively.
Experimental entanglement of a record-high number of quantum interfaces makes
an important enabling step towards realization of quantum networks,
long-distance quantum communication, and multipartite quantum information
processing.

We first consider quantum communication protocols between a sender Alice and
a receiver Bob, which transfer Alice's quantum information to Bob by means of
non-local resources, such as classical communication, quantum communication,
and entanglement. In these protocols, we assume that Alice and Bob may have
quantum side information, not transferred. In this work, these protocols are
called the state transfer with quantum side information. We determine the
optimal costs for non-local resources in the protocols, and study what the
effects of the use of quantum side information are. Our results can give new
operational meanings to the quantum mutual information and the quantum
conditional mutual information, which directly provide us with an operational
interpretation of the chain rule for the quantum mutual information.

Remote quantum entanglement can enable numerous applications including
distributed quantum computation, secure communication, and precision sensing.
In this paper, we consider how a quantum network-nodes equipped with limited
quantum processing capabilities connected via lossy optical links-can
distribute high-rate entanglement simultaneously between multiple pairs of
users (multiple flows). We develop protocols for such quantum "repeater" nodes,
which enable a pair of users to achieve large gains in entanglement rates over
using a linear chain of quantum repeaters, by exploiting the diversity of
multiple paths in the network. Additionally, we develop repeater protocols that
enable multiple user pairs to generate entanglement simultaneously at rates
that can far exceed what is possible with repeaters time sharing among
assisting individual entanglement flows. Our results suggest that the
early-stage development of quantum memories with short coherence times and
implementations of probabilistic Bell-state measurements can have a much more
profound impact on quantum networks than may be apparent from analyzing linear
repeater chains. This framework should spur the development of a general
quantum network theory, bringing together quantum memory physics, quantum
information theory, and computer network theory.

Machine learning has been presented as one of the key applications for
near-term quantum technologies, given its high commercial value and wide range
of applicability. In this work, we introduce the \textit{quantum-assisted
Helmholtz machine:} a hybrid quantum-classical framework with the potential of
tackling high-dimensional real-world machine learning datasets on continuous
variables. Instead of using quantum computers only to assist deep learning, as
previous approaches have suggested, we use deep learning to extract a
low-dimensional binary representation of data, suitable for processing on
relatively small quantum computers. Then, the quantum hardware and deep
learning architecture work together to train an unsupervised generative model.
We demonstrate this concept using 1644 quantum bits of a D-Wave 2000Q quantum
device to model a sub-sampled version of the MNIST handwritten digit dataset
with 16x16 continuous valued pixels. Although we illustrate this concept on a
quantum annealer, adaptations to other quantum platforms, such as ion-trap
technologies or superconducting gate-model architectures, could be explored
within this flexible framework.

We classify instances of quantum pseudo-telepathy in the graph isomorphism
game, exploiting the recently discovered connection between quantum information
and the theory of quantum automorphism groups. Specifically, we show that
graphs quantum isomorphic to a given graph are in bijective correspondence with
Morita equivalence classes of certain Frobenius algebras in the category of
finite-dimensional representations of the quantum automorphism algebra of that
graph. We show that such a Frobenius algebra may be constructed from a central
type subgroup of the classical automorphism group, whose action on the graph
has coisotropic vertex stabilisers. In particular, if the original graph has no
quantum symmetries, quantum isomorphic graphs are classified by such subgroups.
We show that all quantum isomorphic graph pairs corresponding to a well-known
family of binary constraint systems arise from this group-theoretical
construction. We use our classification to show that, of the small order
vertex-transitive graphs with no quantum symmetry, none is quantum isomorphic
to a non-isomorphic graph. We show that this is in fact asymptotically almost
surely true of all graphs.

A central challenge in the successful implementation of adiabatic quantum
algorithms is to maintain the quantum adiabaticity during the entire evolution.
However, the energy gap between the ground and the excited states of
interacting many-body systems often decreases quickly with the number of
qubits, and the quantum adiabaticity can be severely impaired. Despite numerous
previous efforts, a practical method to preserve the quantum adiabaticity has
yet to be developed. Here we present a universal approach to enhancing the
quantum adiabaticity via cavity or circuit QED. By coupling an adiabatic
quantum computer to an ancilla cavity, the coupled system can exhibit a
bistable regime with bifurcation points, where the time evolution becomes very
slow. Utilizing these generic nonlinear features, we show that the energy gap
of the adiabatic quantum computer can be positioned between the bifurcation
points, which results in strongly-enhanced quantum adiabaticity. We then apply
this method to a quantum two-level system, an Exact Cover problem, and a
transverse field Ising model. In contrast to previous works, this approach does
not require the spectral knowledge of the quantum system or the construction of
unphysical interactions and can be applied to a vast variety of adiabatic
quantum processes.

Quantum entanglement and coherence are two fundamental resources for quantum
information processing. Recent results clearly demonstrate their relevance in
quantum technological tasks, including quantum communication and quantum
algorithms. In this Letter we study the role of quantum coherence for quantum
state redistribution, a fundamental task where two parties aim to relocate a
quantum particle by using a limited amount of quantum communication and shared
entanglement. We provide general bounds for the resource rates required for
this process, and show that these bounds are tight under additional reasonable
constraints, including the situation where the receiving party cannot use local
coherence. While entanglement cannot be directly converted into local coherence
in our setting, we show that entanglement is still useful for local coherence
creation if an additional quantum channel is provided, and the optimal protocol
for local coherence creation for any given amount of quantum communication and
shared entanglement is presented. We also discuss possible extensions of our
methods to other scenarios where the receiving party is limited by local
constraints, including theories of thermodynamics and asymmetry.

We proposed a framework of quantum-enhanced logic-based blockchain, which
improves the efficiency and power of quantum-secured blockchain. The efficiency
is improved by using a new quantum honest-success Byzantine agreement protocol
to replace the classical Byzantine agreement protocol, while the power is
improved by incorporating quantum protection and quantum certificate into the
syntax of transactions. Our quantum-secured logic-based blockchain can already
be implemented by the current technology. The cryptocurrency created and
transferred in our blockchain is called qulogicoin. Incorporating quantum
protection and quantum certificates into blockchain makes it possible to use
blockchain to overcome the limitations of some quantum cryptographic protocols.
As an illustration, we show that a significant shortcoming of cheat-sensitive
quantum bit commitment protocols can be overcome with the help of our
blockchain and qulogicoin.

The characterization of quantum processes, e.g. communication channels, is an
essential ingredient for establishing quantum information systems. For quantum
key distribution protocols, the amount of overall noise in the channel
determines the rate at which secret bits are distributed between authorized
partners. In particular, tomographic protocols allow for the full
reconstruction, and thus characterization, of the channel. Here, we perform
quantum process tomography of high-dimensional quantum communication channels
with dimensions ranging from 2 to 5. We can thus explicitly demonstrate the
effect of an eavesdropper performing an optimal cloning attack or an
intercept-resend attack during a quantum cryptographic protocol. Moreover, our
study shows that quantum process tomography enables a more detailed
understanding of the channel conditions compared to a coarse-grained measure,
such as quantum bit error rates. This full characterization technique allows us
to optimize the performance of quantum key distribution under asymmetric
experimental conditions, which is particularly useful when considering
high-dimensional encoding schemes.

Efficient simulation of quantum mechanical problems can be performed in a
quantum computer where the interactions of qubits lead to the realization of
various problems possessing quantum nature. Spin-Boson Model (SBM) is one of
the striking models in quantum physics that enables to describe the dynamics of
most of the two-level quantum systems through the bath of harmonic oscillators.
Here we simulate the SBM and illustrate its applications in a biological system
by designing appropriate quantum circuits for the Hamiltonian of photosynthetic
reaction centers in IBM's 5-qubit quantum computer. We consider both two-level
and four-level biomolecular quantum systems to observe the effect of quantum
tunnelling in the reaction dynamics. We study the behaviour of tunneling by
changing different parameters in the Hamiltonian of the system. The results of
SBM can be applied to various two-, four- and multi-level quantum systems
explicating electron transfer process.

The Klein Gordon equation was the first attempt at unifying special
relativity and quantum mechanics. While initially discarded this equation of
"many fathers" can be used in understanding spinless particles that
consequently led to the discovery of pions and other subatomic particles. The
equation leads to the development of Dirac equation and hence quantum field
theory. It shows interesting quantum relativistic phenomena like Klein Paradox
and "Zitterbewegung", a rapid vibrating movement of quantum relativistic
particles. The simulation of such quantum equations initially motivated Feynman
to propose the idea of quantum computation. While many such simulations have
been done till date in various physical setups, this is the first time a
digital quantum simulation of Klein Gordon equation is proposed on IBM's
quantum computer. Here we simulate the time-dependent Klein Gordon equation in
a barrier potential and clearly observe the tunnelling of the particle and
anti-particle through a strong potential claiming Klein Paradox. The simulation
technique used here inspires the quantum computing community for further
studying Klein Gordon equation and applying it to more complicated quantum
mechanical systems.

Quantum autoencoders allow for reducing the amount of resources in a quantum
computation by mapping the original Hilbert space onto a reduced space with the
relevant information. Recently, it was proposed to employ approximate quantum
adders to implement quantum autoencoders in quantum technologies. Here, we
carry out the experimental implementation of this proposal in the Rigetti cloud
quantum computer employing up to three qubits. The experimental fidelities are
in good agreement with the theoretical prediction, thus proving the feasibility
to realize quantum autoencoders via quantum adders in state-of-the-art
superconducting quantum technologies.

In a recent paper [2], Chang et al. have proposed studying "Quantum
$\mathbb{F}_{un}$": the $q \mapsto 1$ limit of Modal Quantum Theories over
finite fields $\mathbb{F}_q$, motivated by the fact that such limit theories
can be naturally interpreted in classical Quantum Theory. In this letter, we
first make a number of rectifications of statements made in [2]. For instance,
we show that Quantum Theory over $\mathbb{F}_1$ {\em does} have a natural
analogon of an inner product, and so orthogonality is a well-defined notion,
contrary to what is claimed in [2]. Starting from that formalism, we introduce
time evolution operators and observables in Quantum $\mathbb{F}_{un}$, and we
determine the corresponding unitary group. Next, we obtain a typical no-cloning
in the general realm of Quantum $\mathbb{F}_{un}$. Finally, we obtain a
no-deletion result as well. Remarkably, we show that we {\em can} perform
quantum deletion by {\em almost unitary operators}, with a probability tending
to $1$. Although we develop the construction in Quantum $\mathbb{F}_{un}$, it
is also valid in any other Quantum Theory (and thus also in classical Quantum
Theory).

Physically motivated quantum algorithms for specific near-term quantum
hardware will likely be the next frontier in quantum information science. Here,
we show how many of the features of neural networks for machine learning can
naturally be mapped into the quantum optical domain by introducing the quantum
optical neural network (QONN). Through numerical simulation and analysis we
train the QONN to perform a range of quantum information processing tasks,
including newly developed protocols for quantum optical state compression,
reinforcement learning, and black-box quantum simulation. We consistently
demonstrate our system can generalize from only a small set of training data
onto states for which it has not been trained. Our results indicate QONNs are a
powerful design tool for quantum optical systems and, leveraging advances in
integrated quantum photonics, a promising architecture for next generation
quantum processors.

The ability of implementing quantum operations plays fundamental role in
manipulating quantum systems. Creation and annihilation operators which
transform a quantum state to another by adding or subtracting a particle are
crucial of constructing quantum description of many body quantum theory and
quantum field theory. Here we present a quantum algorithm to perform them by
the linear combination of unitary operations associated with a two-qubit
ancillary system. Our method can realize creation and annihilation operators
simultaneously in the subspace of the whole system. A prototypical experiment
was performed with a 4-qubit Nuclear Magnetic Resonance processor,
demonstrating the algorithm via full state tomography. The creation and
annihilation operators are realized with a fidelity all above 96% and a
probability about 50%. Moreover, our method can be employed to quantum random
walk in an arbitrary initial state. With the prosperous development of quantum
computing, our work provides a quantum control technology to implement
non-unitary evolution in near-term quantum computer.

Quantum detailed balance conditions and quantum fluctuation relations are two
important concepts in the dynamics of open quantum systems: both concern how
such systems behave when they thermalize because of interaction with an
environment. We prove that for thermalizing quantum dynamics the quantum
detailed balance conditions yield the validity of a quantum fluctuation
relation (where only forward-time dynamics is considered). This implies that to
have such a quantum fluctuation relation (which in turn enables a precise
formulation of the second law of thermodynamics for quantum systems) it
suffices to fulfill the quantum detailed balance conditions. We, however, show
that the converse is not necessarily true; indeed, there are cases of
thermalizing dynamics which feature the quantum fluctuation relation without
satisfying detailed balance. We illustrate our results with three examples.

We initiate the study of parallel quantum programming by defining the
operational and denotational semantics of parallel quantum programs. The
technical contributions of this paper include: (1) find a series of useful
proof rules for reasoning about correctness of parallel quantum programs; (2)
prove a (relative) completeness of our proof rules for partial correctness of
disjoint parallel quantum programs; and (3) prove a strong soundness theorem of
the proof rules showing that partial correctness is well maintained at each
step of transitions in the operational semantics of a general parallel quantum
program (with shared variables). This is achieved by partially overcoming the
following conceptual challenges that are never present in classical parallel
programming: (i) the intertwining of nondeterminism caused by quantum
measurements and introduced by parallelism; (ii) entanglement between component
quantum programs; and (iii) combining quantum predicates in the overlap of
state Hilbert spaces of component quantum programs with shared variables.
Applications of the techniques developed in this paper are illustrated by a
formal verification of Bravyi-Gosset-K\"onig's parallel quantum algorithm
solving a linear algebra problem, which gives for the first time an
unconditional proof of a computational quantum advantage.

Staggered quantum walks on graphs are based on the concept of graph
tessellation and generalize some well-known discrete-time quantum walk models.
In this work, we address the class of 2-tessellable quantum walks with the goal
of obtaining an eigenbasis of the evolution operator. By interpreting the
evolution operator as a quantum Markov chain on an underlying multigraph, we
define the concept of quantum detailed balance, which helps to obtain the
eigenbasis. A subset of the eigenvectors is obtained from the eigenvectors of
the double discriminant matrix of the quantum Markov chain. To obtain the
remaining eigenvectors, we have to use the quantum detailed balance conditions.
If the quantum Markov chain has a quantum detailed balance, there is an
eigenvector for each fundamental cycle of the underlying multigraph. If the
quantum Markov chain does not have a quantum detailed balance, we have to use
two fundamental cycles linked by a path in order to find the remaining
eigenvectors. We exemplify the process of obtaining the eigenbasis of the
evolution operator using the kagome lattice (the line graph of the hexagonal
lattice), which has symmetry properties that help in the calculation process.

Quantum annealing devices have been subject to various analyses in order to
classify their usefulness for practical applications. While it has been
successfully proven that such systems can in general be used for solving
combinatorial optimization problems, they have not been used to solve chemistry
applications. In this paper we apply a mapping, put forward by Xia et al. (The
Journal of Physical Chemistry B 122.13 (2017): 3384-3395.), from a quantum
chemistry Hamiltonian to an Ising spin glass formulation and find the ground
state energy with a quantum annealer. Additionally we investigate the scaling
in terms of needed physical qubits on a quantum annealer with limited
connectivity. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first experimental
study of quantum chemistry problems on quantum annealing devices. We find that
current quantum annealing technologies result in an exponential scaling for
such inherently quantum problems and that new couplers are necessary to make
quantum annealers attractive for quantum chemistry.

In this thesis, I present several results on quantum statistical inference in
the following two directions. Firstly, I demonstrate that quantum algorithms
can be applied to enhance the computing and training of Gaussian processes
(GPs), a powerful model widely used in classical statistical inference and
supervised machine learning. A crucial component of the quantum GP algorithm is
solving linear systems with quantum computers, for which I present a novel
algorithm that achieves a provable advantage over previously known methods. I
will also explicitly address the task of encoding the classical data into a
quantum state for machine learning applications. I then apply the quantum
enhanced GPs to Bayesian deep learning and present an experimental
demonstration on contemporary hardware and simulators. Secondly, I look into
the notion of quantum causality and apply it to inferring spatial and temporal
quantum correlations, and present an analytical toolkit for causal inference in
quantum data. I will also make the connection between causality and quantum
communications, and present a general bound for the quantum capacity of noisy
communication channels.

Computational quantum technologies are entering a new phase in which noisy
intermediate-scale quantum computers are available, but are still too small to
benefit from active error correction. Even with a finite coherence budget to
invest in quantum information processing, noisy devices with about 50 qubits
are expected to experimentally demonstrate quantum supremacy in the next few
years. Defined in terms of artificial tasks, current proposals for quantum
supremacy, even if successful, will not help to provide solutions to practical
problems. Instead, we believe that future users of quantum computers are
interested in actual applications and that noisy quantum devices may still
provide value by approximately solving hard combinatorial problems via hybrid
classical-quantum algorithms. To lower bound the size of quantum computers with
practical utility, we perform realistic simulations of the Quantum Approximate
Optimization Algorithm and conclude that quantum speedup will not be
attainable, at least for a representative combinatorial problem, until several
hundreds of qubits are available.

Bipartite quantum interactions have applications in a number of different
areas of quantum physics, reaching from fundamental areas such as quantum
thermodynamics and the theory of quantum measurements to other applications
such as quantum computers, quantum key distribution, and other information
processing protocols. A particular aspect of the study of bipartite
interactions is concerned with the entanglement that can be created from such
interactions. In this Letter, we present our work on two basic building blocks
of bipartite quantum protocols, namely, the generation of maximally entangled
states and secret key via bipartite quantum interactions. In particular, we
provide a nontrivial, efficiently computable upper bound on the
positive-partial-transpose-assisted quantum capacity of a bipartite quantum
interaction. In addition, we provide an upper bound on the secret-key-agreement
capacity of a bipartite quantum interaction assisted by local operations and
classical communication. As an application, we introduce a cryptographic
protocol for the readout of a digital memory device that is secure against a
passive eavesdropper.

Quantum chemistry calculations for small molecules on quantum hardware have
been demonstrated to date only on universal-gate quantum computers, not quantum
annealers. The latter devices are limited to finding the lowest eigenstate of
the Ising Hamiltonian whereas the electronic Hamiltonian could not be mapped to
the Ising form without exponential growth of the Ising Hamiltonian with the
size of the system [J. Phys. Chem. B 122, 3384 (2018)]. Here we propose a novel
mixed discrete-continuous optimization algorithm, which finds the lowest
eigenstate of the qubit coupled cluster (QCC) method using a quantum annealer
for solving a discrete part of the problem. The QCC method is a potentially
exact approach for constructing the electronic wave function in the qubit
space. Therefore, our methodology allows for systematically improvable quantum
chemistry calculations using quantum annealears. We illustrate capabilities of
our approach by calculating QCC ground electronic states for the LiH, H$_2$O,
and C$_6$H$_6$ molecules. C$_6$H$_6$ calculations involve 36 qubits and are the
largest quantum chemistry calculations made on a quantum annealer (the D-Wave
2000Q system) to date. Our findings opens up a new perspective for use quantum
annealers in high-throughput material discovery.

Silicon-based quantum computing has the potential advantages of low cost,
high integration density, and compatibility with CMOS technologies. The
detuning mechanism has been used to experimentally achieve silicon two-qubit
quantum gates and programmable quantum processors. In this paper, the scaling
behaviors and variability issues are explored by numerical device simulations
of a model silicon quantum gate based on the detuning mechanism. The device
physics of quantum gates modulation, tradeoff between device speed and quantum
fidelity, and impact of variability on the implementation of a quantum
algorithm are examined. The results indicate the attractive potential to
achieve high speed and fidelity silicon quantum gates with a low operation
voltage. To scale up, reducing the device variability and mitigating the
variability effect are identified to be indispensable for reliable implementing
a quantum computing algorithm with the silicon quantum gates based on the
detuning mechanism. A scheme to use the control electronics for mitigating the
variability of quantum gates is proposed.

Engineered quantum systems enabling novel capabilities for communication,
computation, and sensing have blossomed in the last decade. Architectures
benefiting from combining distinct and complementary physical quantum systems
have emerged as promising platforms for developing quantum technologies. A new
class of hybrid quantum systems based on collective spin excitations in
ferromagnetic materials has led to the diverse set of experimental platforms
which are outlined in this review article. The coherent interaction between
microwave cavity modes and collective spin-wave modes is presented as the
backbone of the development of more complex hybrid quantum systems. Indeed,
quanta of excitation of the spin-wave modes, called magnons, can also interact
coherently with optical photons, phonons, and superconducting qubits in the
fields of cavity optomagnonics, cavity magnomechanics, and quantum magnonics,
respectively. Notably, quantum magnonics provides a promising platform for
performing quantum optics experiments in magnetically-ordered solid-state
systems. Applications of hybrid quantum systems based on magnonics for quantum
information processing and quantum sensing are also outlined briefly.

Correlations of fluctuations are the driving forces behind the dynamics and
thermodynamics in quantum many-body systems. For qubits embedded in a quantum
bath, the correlations in the bath are the key to understanding and combating
decoherence -a critical issue in quantum information technology. However, there
is no systematic method for characterizing the many-body correlations in
quantum baths beyond the second order or the Gaussian approximation. Here we
present a scheme to characterize the correlations in a quantum bath to
arbitrary order. The scheme employs weak measurement of the bath via projective
measurement of a central system. The bath correlations, including both the
"classical" and the "quantum" parts, can be reconstructed from the correlations
of the measurement outputs. The possibility of full characterization of
many-body correlations in a quantum bath forms the basis for optimizing quantum
control against decoherence in realistic environments, for studying the quantum
characteristics of baths, and for quantum sensing of correlated clusters in
quantum baths.

The computational cost of preparing a quantum state can be substantial
depending on the structure of data to be encoded. Many quantum algorithms
require repeated sampling to find the answer, mandating reconstruction of the
same input state for every execution of an algorithm. Thus, the advantage of
quantum computation can diminish due to redundant state initialization. We
present a framework based on quantum forking that bypasses this fundamental
issue and expedites a family of tasks that require sampling from independent
quantum processes. Quantum forking propagates an input state to multiple
quantum trajectories in superposition, and a weighted power sum of individual
results from each trajectories is obtained in one measurement via quantum
interference. The significance of our work is demonstrated via applications to
implementing non-unitary quantum channels, studying entanglement and
benchmarking quantum control. A proof-of-principle experiment is implemented on
the IBM and Rigetti quantum cloud platforms.

Distributed quantum information processing is a promising platform for
scaling up quantum information processing, where small- and intermediate-scale
quantum devices are connected by a network of quantum channels for
communicating quantum information, so as to cooperate in achieving larger-scale
information processing. In such distributed settings, entangled states shared
among the multiple devices serve as a resource for achieving nonlocal
information processing tasks by local operations and classical communication
(LOCC), where transformations of multipartite entangled states play central
roles. This thesis analyzes properties of quantum entanglement in these small-
and intermediate-scale settings and multipartite settings. The first part of
this thesis investigates a communication task, quantum state merging, on the
small and intermediate scales. The second part of this thesis analyzes
multipartite entanglement in distributed quantum information processing. These
analyses clarify fundamental limitations and potential applications of
distributed quantum information processing to characterize properties of
quantum entanglement in the small- and intermediate-scale settings and
multipartite settings, providing a paradigm for investigating multipartite
entanglement in distributed quantum information processing over networks beyond
the state convertibility under LOCC.

It is well-known that any quantum channel $\mathcal{E}$ satisfies the data
processing inequality (DPI), with respect to various divergences, e.g., quantum
$\chi^2_{\kappa}$divergences and quantum relative entropy. More specifically,
the data processing inequality states that the divergence between two arbitrary
quantum states $\rho$ and $\sigma$ does not increase under the action of any
quantum channel $\mathcal{E}$. For a fixed channel $\mathcal{E}$ and a state
$\sigma$, the divergence between output states $\mathcal{E}(\rho)$ and
$\mathcal{E}(\sigma)$ might be strictly smaller than the divergence between
input states $\rho$ and $\sigma$, which is characterized by the strong data
processing inequality (SDPI). Among various input states $\rho$, the largest
value of the rate of contraction is known as the SDPI constant. An important
and widely studied property for classical channels is that SDPI constants
tensorize. In this paper, we extend the tensorization property to the quantum
regime: we establish the tensorization of SDPIs for the quantum
$\chi^2_{\kappa_{1/2}}$ divergence for arbitrary quantum channels and also for
a family of $\chi^2_{\kappa}$ divergences (with $\kappa \ge \kappa_{1/2}$) for
arbitrary quantum-classical channels.

Quantum metrology concerns estimating a parameter from multiple identical
uses of a quantum channel. We extend quantum metrology beyond this standard
setting and consider estimation of a physical process with quantum memory, here
referred to as a parametrized quantum comb. We present a theoretic framework of
metrology of quantum combs, and derive a general upper bound of the comb
quantum Fisher information. The bound can be operationally interpreted as the
quantum Fisher information of a memoryless quantum channel times a dimensional
factor. We then show an example where the bound can be attained up to a factor
of four. With the example and the bound, we show that memory in quantum sensors
plays an even more crucial role in the estimation of combs than in the standard
setting of quantum metrology.

Our aim is to formulate continuous-variable quantum secret sharing as a
continuous-variable ramp quantum secret sharing protocol, provide a
certification procedure for it and explain the criteria for the certification.
Here we introduce a technique for certifying continuous-variable ramp quantum
secret-sharing schemes in the framework of quantum interactive-proof systems.
We devise pseudocodes in order to represent the sequence of steps taken to
solve the certification problem. Furthermore, we derive the expression for
quantum mutual information between the quantum secret extracted by any
multi-player structure and the share held by the referee corresponding to the
Tyc-Rowe-Sanders continuous-variable quantum secret-sharing scheme. We solve by
converting the Tyc-Rowe-Sanders position representation for the state into a
Wigner function from which the covariance matrix can be found, then insert the
covariance matrix into the standard formula for continuous-variable quantum
mutual information to obtain quantum mutual information in terms of squeezing.
Our quantum mutual information result quantifies the leakage of the ramp
quantum secret-sharing schemes.

A potential quantum internet would open up the possibility of realizing
numerous new applications, including provably secure communication. Since
losses of photons limit long-distance, direct quantum communication and
widespread quantum networks, quantum repeaters are needed. The so-called
PLOB-repeaterless bound [Pirandola et al., Nat. Commun. 8, 15043 (2017)] is a
fundamental limit on the quantum capacity of direct quantum communication.
Here, we analytically derive the quantum-repeater gain for error-corrected,
one-way quantum repeaters based on higher-dimensional qudits for two different
physical encodings: Fock and multimode qudits. We identify parameter regimes in
which such quantum repeaters can surpass the PLOB-repeaterless bound and
systematically analyze how typical parameters manifest themselves in the
quantum-repeater gain. This benchmarking provides a guideline for the
implementation of error-corrected qudit repeaters.

This book provides an introduction to the emerging field of quantum
thermodynamics, with particular focus on its relation to quantum information
and its implications for quantum computers and next generation quantum
technologies. The text, aimed at graduate level physics students with a working
knowledge of quantum mechanics and statistical physics, provides a brief
overview of the development of classical thermodynamics and its quantum
formulation in Chapter 1. Chapter 2 then explores typical thermodynamic
settings, such as cycles and work extraction protocols, when the working
material is genuinely quantum. Finally, Chapter 3 explores the thermodynamics
of quantum information processing and introduces the reader to some more
state-of-the-art topics in this exciting and rapidly developing research field.

The goal of teleportation is to transfer the state of one particle to another
particle. In coined quantum walks, conditional shift operators can introduce
entanglement between position space and coin space. This entanglement resource
can be used as a quantum channel for teleportation, as proposed by Wang, Shang
and Xue [Quantum Inf. Process. 16, 221 (2017)]. Here, we demonstrate the
implementation of quantum teleportation using quantum walks on a five-qubit
quantum computer and a 32-qubit simulator provided by IBM quantum experience
beta platform. We show the teleportation of single-qubit, two-qubit and
three-qubit quantum states with circuit implementation on the quantum devices.
The teleportation of Bell, W and GHZ states has also been demonstrated as
special cases of the above states.

Kernel methods have a wide spectrum of applications in machine learning.
Recently, a link between quantum computing and kernel theory has been formally
established, opening up opportunities for quantum techniques to enhance various
existing machine learning methods. We present a distance-based quantum
classifier whose kernel is based on the quantum state fidelity between training
and test data. The quantum kernel can be tailored systematically with a quantum
circuit to raise the kernel to an arbitrary power and to assign arbitrary
weights to each training data. Given a specific input state, our protocol
calculates the weighted power sum of fidelities of quantum data in quantum
parallel via a swap-test circuit followed by two single-qubit measurements,
requiring only a constant number of repetitions regardless of the number of
data. We also show that our classifier is equivalent to measuring the
expectation value of a Helstrom operator, from which the well-known optimal
quantum state discrimination can be derived. We demonstrate the
proof-of-principle via classical simulations with a realistic noise model and
experiments using the IBM quantum computer.

Understanding the limits of quantum theory in terms of uncertainty and
correlation has always been a topic of foundational interest. Surprisingly this
pursuit can also bear interesting applications such as device-independent
quantum cryptography and tomography or self-testing. Building upon a series of
recent works on the geometry of quantum correlations, we are interested in the
problem of computing quantum Bell inequalities or the boundary between quantum
and post-quantum world. Better knowledge of this boundary will lead to more
efficient device-independent quantum processing protocols. We show that
computing quantum Bell inequalities is an instance of a quantifier elimination
problem, and apply these techniques to the bipartite scenario in which each
party can have three measurement settings. Due to heavy computational
complexity, we are able to obtain the characterization of certain "linear"
relaxation of the quantum set for this scenario. The resulting quantum Bell
inequalities are shown to be equivalent to the Tsirelson-Landau-Masanes arcsin
inequality, which is the only type of quantum Bell inequality found since 1987.

Experimental validation and control of quantum traits for an open quantum
system are important for any quantum information purpose. We consider a
traveling atom qubit as a quantum memory with adjustable velocity inside a
leaky cavity, adopting a quantum witness as a figure of merit for quantumness
assessment. We show that this model constitutes an inherent physical instance
where the quantum witness does not work properly if not suitably optimized. We
then supply the optimal intermediate blind measurements which make the quantum
witness a faithful tester of quantum coherence. We thus find that larger
velocities protect quantumness against noise, leading to lifetime extension of
hybrid qubit-photon entanglement and to higher phase estimation precision.
Control of qubit motion thus reveals itself as a quantum enhancer.

Quantum computers promise to efficiently solve important problems that are
intractable on a conventional computer. Quantum computational algorithms have
the potential to be an exciting new way of studying quantum cosmology. In
quantum cosmology, we learn about the dynamics of the universe without
constructing a complete theory of quantum gravity. Since the universal
wavefunction exists in an infinite-dimensional superspace over all possible 3D
metrics and modes of matter configurations, we take minisuperspaces for our
work by constraining the degrees of freedom to particular 3D metrics and
uniform scalar field configurations. Here, we consider a wide variety of
cosmological models. We begin by analyzing an anisotropic universe with
cosmological constant and classical radiation. We then study the results for
higher derivatives, Kaluza-Klein theories and string dilaton in quantum
cosmology. We use IBM's Quantum Information Science Kit (QISKit) python library
and the Variational Quantum Eigensolver (VQE) algorithm for studying these
systems. The VQE algorithm is a hybrid algorithm that uses the variational
approach and interleaves quantum and classical computations in order to find
the minimum eigenvalue of the Hamiltonian for a given system.

Bosonic quantum fields can be simulated with `quantum software' in
phase-space. The positive-P, Wigner and Q-function phase-space methods are
reviewed. Initial quantum states and boundaries for infinite domains are
considered in detail. The quantum initial conditions treated include both
multi-mode Gaussian states and number states, which are sampled using
phase-shifted weighting techniques. This is more efficient than direct
probabilistic sampling. Algorithms for treating periodic boundaries within
infinite domains are developed via apodisation, or absorbers near the boundary.
Similar truncation or anti-aliasing issues arise in the frequency domain with
Fourier transform methods. Complex apodisation, in which there are phase-shifts
as well as absorption, improves accuracy by reducing unwanted errors, and this
is illustrated numerically. The complex power law apodisation techniques
described here can be applied to numerical calculations or even directly in
optics. Phase-space simulations, used for both quantum optical and
Bose-Einstein condensate quantum dynamical calculations, require quantum noise
terms to be included. A method is described to analyze number conservation in
apodised calculations. Some techniques developed here are potentially
applicable to all digital simulations, whether using classical or quantum
logic.

Local quantum uncertainty captures purely quantum correlations excluding
their classical counterpart. This measure is quantum discord type, however with
the advantage that there is no need to carry out the complicated optimization
procedure over measurements. This measure is initially defined for bipartite
quantum systems and a closed formula exists only for $2 \otimes d$ systems. We
extend the idea of local quantum uncertainty to multi-qubit systems and provide
the similar closed formula to compute this measure. We explicitly calculate
local quantum uncertainty for various quantum states of three and four qubits,
like GHZ state, W state, Dicke state, Cluster state, Singlet state, and Chi
state all mixed with white noise. We compute this measure for some other well
known three qubit quantum states as well. We show that for all such symmetric
states, it is sufficient to apply measurements on any single qubit to compute
this measure, whereas in general one has to apply measurements on all parties
as local quantum uncertainties for each bipartition can be different for an
arbitrary quantum state.

Entropy is one of the most basic concepts in thermodynamics and statistical
mechanics. The most widely used definition of statistical mechanical entropy
for a quantum system is introduced by von Neumann. While in classical systems,
the statistical mechanical entropy is defined by Gibbs. The relation between
these two definitions of entropy is still not fully explored. In this work, we
study this problem by employing the phase-space formulation of quantum
mechanics. For those quantum states having well-defined classical counterparts,
we study the quantum-classical correspondence and quantum corrections of the
entropy. We expand the von Neumann entropy in powers of ${\hbar}$ by using the
phase-space formulation, and the zeroth order term reproduces the Gibbs
entropy. We also obtain the explicit expression of the quantum corrections of
the entropy. Moreover, we find that for the thermodynamic equilibrium state,
all terms odd in ${\hbar}$ are exactly zero. As an application, we derive
quantum corrections for the net work extraction during a quantum Carnot cycle.
Our results bring important insights to the understanding of quantum entropy
and may have potential applications in the study of quantum heat engines.

Photons have been identified early on as a very good candidate for quantum
technologies applications, as carriers of quantum information, either by
polarization encoding, time encoding or spatial encoding. Quantum cryptography,
quantum communications, quantum networks and quantum computing are some of the
applications targeted by the so called quantum photonics. Nevertheless, it was
also clear at an early stage that bulk optics for handling quantum states of
light would not be the best option for these technologies. More recently,
single photons, entangled photons and quantum light in general have been
coupled to integrated approaches coming from classical optics in order to meet
the requirements of scalability, reliability and efficiency for quantum
technologies. In this article, we describe our recent advances using elongated
optical nano-fibers. We also present our latest results on nanocrystals made of
perovskites and discuss some of their quantum properties. Finally, we will
discuss the general steps necessary in order to couple these nanoemitters
efficiently with our photonic platform, based on tapered optical nanofibers.

Based on the concepts of quantum synchronization and quantum phase
synchronization proposed by A. Mari \textit{et al.} in Phys. Rev. Lett. 111,
103605 (2013), we introduce and characterize the measure of a more generalized
quantum synchronization called quantum $\varphi$-synchronization under which
the pairs of variables have the same amplitude and possess the same $\varphi$
phase shift. Naturally, quantum synchronization and quantum
anti-synchronization become special cases of quantum $\varphi$-synchronization.
Their relations and differences are also discussed. To illustrate these
theories, we investigate the quantum $\varphi$-synchronization and quantum
phase synchronization phenomena of two coupled optomechanical systems with
periodic modulation and show that quantum $\varphi$-synchronization is more
general as a measure of synchronization. We also show the phenomenon of quantum
anti-synchronization when $\varphi=\pi$.

Quantum machine learning seeks to exploit the underlying nature of a quantum
computer to enhance machine learning techniques. A particular framework uses
the quantum property of superposition to store sets of parameters, thereby
creating an ensemble of quantum classifiers that may be computed in parallel.
The idea stems from classical ensemble methods where one attempts to build a
stronger model by averaging the results from many different models. In this
work, we demonstrate that a specific implementation of the quantum ensemble of
quantum classifiers, called the accuracy-weighted quantum ensemble, can be
fully dequantised. On the other hand, the general quantum ensemble framework is
shown to contain the well-known Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm that notably provides a
quantum speedup and creates the potential for a useful quantum ensemble to
harness this computational advantage.

In open quantum systems, a clear distinction between work and heat is often
challenging, and extending the quantum Jarzynski equality to systems evolving
under general quantum channels beyond unitality remains an open problem in
quantum thermodynamics. In this Letter, we introduce well-defined notions of
guessed quantum heat and guessed quantum work, by exploiting the one-time
measurement scheme, which only requires an initial energy measurement on the
system alone. We derive a modified quantum Jarzynski equality and the principle
of maximum work with respect to the guessed quantum work, which requires the
knowledge of the system only. We further show the significance of guessed
quantum heat and work by linking them to the problem of quantum hypothesis
testing.

The creation complexity of a quantum state is the minimum number of
elementary gates required to create it from a basic initial state. The creation
complexity of quantum states is closely related to the complexity of quantum
circuits, which is crucial in developing efficient quantum algorithms that can
outperform classical algorithms. A major question unanswered so far is what
quantum states can be created with a number of elementary gates that scales
polynomially with the number of qubits. In this work we first show for an
entirely general quantum state it is exponentially hard (requires a number of
steps that scales exponentially with the number of qubits) to determine if the
creation complexity is polynomial. We then show it is possible for a large
class of quantum states with polynomial creation complexity to have common
coefficient features such that given any candidate quantum state we can design
an efficient coefficient sampling procedure to determine if it belongs to the
class or not with arbitrarily high success probability. Consequently partial
knowledge of a quantum state's creation complexity is obtained, which can be
useful for designing quantum circuits and algorithms involving such a state.

Realizing the promise of quantum information processing remains a daunting
task, given the omnipresence of noise and error. Adapting noise-resilient
classical computing modalities to quantum mechanics may be a viable path
towards near-term applications in the noisy intermediate-scale quantum era.
Here, we propose continuous variable quantum reservoir computing in a single
nonlinear oscillator. Through numerical simulation of our model we demonstrate
quantum-classical performance improvement, and identify its likely source: the
nonlinearity of quantum measurement. Beyond quantum reservoir computing, this
result may impact the interpretation of results across quantum machine
learning. We study how the performance of our quantum reservoir depends on
Hilbert space dimension, how it is impacted by injected noise, and briefly
comment on its experimental implementation. Our results show that quantum
reservoir computing in a single nonlinear oscillator is an attractive modality
for quantum computing on near-term hardware.

Quantum correlations are central to the foundations of quantum physics and
form the basis of quantum technologies. Here, our goal is to connect quantum
correlations and computation: using quantum correlations as a resource for
computation - and vice versa, using computation to test quantum correlations.
We derive Bell-type inequalities that test the capacity of quantum states for
computing Boolean functions and experimentally investigate them using 4-photon
Greenberger-Horne-Zeilinger (GHZ) states. Further, we show how the generated
states can be used to specifically compute Boolean functions - which can be
used to test and verify the non-classicality of the underlying quantum states.
The connection between quantum correlation and computability shown here has
applications in quantum technologies, and is important for networked computing
being performed by measurements on distributed multipartite quantum states.

The preparation of quantum Gibbs state is an essential part of quantum
computation and has wide-ranging applications in various areas, including
quantum simulation, quantum optimization, and quantum machine learning. In this
paper, we propose variational hybrid quantum-classical algorithms for quantum
Gibbs state preparation. We first utilize a truncated Taylor series to evaluate
the free energy and choose the truncated free energy as the loss function. Our
protocol then trains the parameterized quantum circuits to learn the desired
quantum Gibbs state. Notably, this algorithm can be implemented on near-term
quantum computers equipped with parameterized quantum circuits. By performing
numerical experiments, we show that shallow parameterized circuits with only
one additional qubit can be trained to prepare the Ising chain and spin chain
Gibbs states with a fidelity higher than 95%. In particular, for the Ising
chain model, we find that a simplified circuit ansatz with only one parameter
and one additional qubit can be trained to realize a 99% fidelity in Gibbs
state preparation at inverse temperatures larger than 2.

Development of quantum architectures during the last decade has inspired
hybrid classical-quantum algorithms in physics and quantum chemistry that
promise simulations of fermionic systems beyond the capability of modern
classical computers, even before the era of quantum computing fully arrives.
Strong research efforts have been recently made to obtain minimal depth quantum
circuits which could accurately represent chemical systems. Here, we show that
unprecedented methods used in quantum chemistry, designed to simulate molecules
on quantum processors, can be extended to calculate properties of periodic
solids. In particular, we present minimal depth circuits implementing the
variational quantum eigensolver algorithm and successfully use it to compute
the band structure of silicon on a quantum machine for the first time. We are
convinced that the presented quantum experiments performed on cloud-based
platforms will stimulate more intense studies towards scalable electronic
structure computation of advanced quantum materials.

The uncertainty principle is one of the comprehensive and fundamental concept
in quantum theory. This principle states that it is not possible to
simultaneously measure two incompatible observatories with high accuracy.
Uncertainty principle has been formulated in various form. The most famous type
of uncertainty relation is expressed based on the standard deviation of
observables. In quantum information theory the uncertainty principle can be
formulated using Shannon and von Neumann entropy. Entropic uncertainty relation
in the presence of quantum memory is one of the most useful entropic
uncertainty relations. Due to their importance and scalability, solid state
systems have received considerable attention nowadays. In this work we will
consider a quantum dot system as a solid state system. We will study the
quantum correlation and quantum memory assisted entropic uncertainty in this
typ of system. We will show that the temperature in of quantum dot system can
affect the quantum correlation and entropic uncertainty bound. It will be
observed that the entropic uncertainty bound decreases with decreasing
temperature and quantum correlations decreases with increasing the temperature.

Quantum effects such as the environment assisted quantum transport (ENAQT)
displayed in photosynthetic Fenna-Mathews-Olson (FMO) complex has been
simulated on analog quantum simulators. Digital quantum simulations offer
greater universality and flexibility over analog simulations. However, digital
quantum simulations of open quantum systems face a theoretical challenge; one
does not know the solutions of the continuous time master equation for
developing quantum gate operators. We give a theoretical framework for digital
quantum simulation of ENAQT by introducing new quantum evolution operators. We
develop the dynamical equation for the operators and prove that it is an
analytical solution of the master equation. As an example, using the dynamical
equations, we simulate the FMO complex in the digital setting, reproducing
theoretical and experimental evidence of the dynamics. The framework gives an
optimal method for {quantum circuit} implementation, giving a log reduction in
complexity over known methods. The generic framework can be extrapolated to
study other open quantum systems.

Quantum sensing, quantum networking and communication, and quantum computing
have attracted significant attention recently, as these quantum technologies
offer significant advantages over existing technologies. In order to accelerate
the commercialization of these quantum technologies the workforce must be
equipped with the necessary skills. Through a qualitative study of the quantum
industry, in a series of interviews with 21 U.S. companies carried out in Fall
2019, we describe the types of activities being carried out in the quantum
industry, profile the types of jobs that exist, and describe the skills valued
across the quantum industry, as well as in each type of job. The current routes
into the quantum industry are detailed, providing a picture of the current role
of higher education in training the quantum workforce. Finally, we present the
training and hiring challenges the quantum industry is facing and how higher
education may optimize the important role it is currently playing.

Quantum computers are an increasingly hopeful means for understanding large
quantum many-body systems bearing high computational complexity. Such systems
exhibit complex evolutions of quantum states, and are prevailing in fundamental
physics, e.g., quantum gravity. Computing the transition amplitudes between
different quantum states by quantum computers is one of the promising ways to
solve such computational complexity problems. In this work, we apply a 10-qubit
superconducting quantum processor, where the all-to-all circuit connectivity
enables a many-body entangling gate that is highly efficient for state
generation, to studying the transition amplitudes in loop quantum gravity. With
the device metrics such as qubit coherence, control accuracy, and integration
level being continuously improved, superconducting quantum processors are
expected to outperform their classical counterparts in handling many-body
dynamics and may lead to a deeper understanding of quantum gravity.

Advantages in several fields of research and industry are expected with the
rise of quantum computers. However, the computational cost to load classical
data in quantum computers can impose restrictions on possible quantum speedups.
Known algorithms to create arbitrary quantum states require quantum circuits
with depth O(N) to load an N-dimensional vector. Here, we show that it is
possible to load an N-dimensional vector with a quantum circuit with
polylogarithmic depth and entangled information in ancillary qubits. Results
show that we can efficiently load data in quantum devices using a
divide-and-conquer strategy to exchange computational time for space. We
demonstrate a proof of concept on a real quantum device and present two
applications for quantum machine learning. We expect that this new loading
strategy allows the quantum speedup of tasks that require to load a significant
volume of information to quantum devices.

Quantum mechanics is usually formulated with an implicit assumption that
agents who can observe and interact with the world are external to it and have
a classical memory. However, there is no accepted way to define the
quantum-classical cut and no a priori reason to rule out fully quantum agents
with coherent quantum memories. In this work, we introduce an entirely quantum
notion of measurement, called a sensation, to account for quantum agents that
experience the world through quantum sensors. Sensations eschew probabilities
and instead describe a deterministic flow of quantum information. We quantify
the information gain and disturbance of a sensation using concepts from quantum
information theory and find that sensations always disturb at least as much as
they inform. Viewing measurements as sensations could lead to a new
understanding of quantum theory in general and to new results in the context of
quantum networks.

Developments over the last two decades have opened the path towards quantum
technologies in many quantum systems, such as cold atoms, trapped ions,
cavity-quantum electrodynamics (QED), and circuit-QED. However the fragility of
quantum states to the effects of measurement and decoherence still poses one of
the greatest challenges in quantum technology. An imperative capability in this
path is quantum feedback, as it enhances the control possibilities and allows
for prolonging coherence times through quantum error correction. While changing
parameters from shot to shot of an experiment or procedure can be considered
feedback, quantum mechanics also allows for the intriguing possibility of
performing feedback operations during the measurement process itself. This
broader approach to measurements leads to the concepts of weak measurement,
quantum trajectories and numerous types of feedback with no classical
analogues. These types of processes are the primary focus of this review. We
introduce the concept of quantum feedback in the context of circuit QED, an
experimental platform with significant potential in quantum feedback and
technology. We then discuss several experiments and see how they elucidate the
concepts of continuous measurements and feedback. We conclude with an overview
of coherent feedback, with application to fault-tolerant error correction.

Over the past few years several quantum machine learning algorithms were
proposed that promise quantum speed-ups over their classical counterparts. Most
of these learning algorithms either assume quantum access to data -- making it
unclear if quantum speed-ups still exist without making these strong
assumptions, or are heuristic in nature with no provable advantage over
classical algorithms. In this paper, we establish a rigorous quantum speed-up
for supervised classification using a general-purpose quantum learning
algorithm that only requires classical access to data. Our quantum classifier
is a conventional support vector machine that uses a fault-tolerant quantum
computer to estimate a kernel function. Data samples are mapped to a quantum
feature space and the kernel entries can be estimated as the transition
amplitude of a quantum circuit. We construct a family of datasets and show that
no classical learner can classify the data inverse-polynomially better than
random guessing, assuming the widely-believed hardness of the discrete
logarithm problem. Meanwhile, the quantum classifier achieves high accuracy and
is robust against additive errors in the kernel entries that arise from finite
sampling statistics.

Quantum information is vulnerable to environmental noise and experimental
imperfections, hindering the reliability of practical quantum information
processors. Therefore, quantum error correction (QEC) that can protect quantum
information against noise is vital for universal and scalable quantum
computation. Among many different experimental platforms, superconducting
quantum circuits and bosonic encodings in superconducting microwave modes are
appealing for their unprecedented potential in QEC. During the last few years,
bosonic QEC is demonstrated to reach the break-even point, i.e. the lifetime of
a logical qubit is enhanced to exceed that of any individual components
composing the experimental system. Beyond that, universal gate sets and
fault-tolerant operations on the bosonic codes are also realized, pushing
quantum information processing towards the QEC era. In this article, we review
the recent progress of the bosonic codes, including the
Gottesman-Kitaev-Preskill codes, cat codes, and binomial codes, and discuss the
opportunities of bosonic codes in various quantum applications, ranging from
fault-tolerant quantum computation to quantum metrology. We also summarize the
challenges associated with the bosonic codes and provide an outlook for the
potential research directions in the long terms.

The ability to manipulate quantum systems lies at the heart of the
development of quantum technology. The ultimate goal of quantum control is to
realize arbitrary quantum operations (AQuOs) for all possible open quantum
system dynamics. However, the demanding extra physical resources impose great
obstacles. Here, we experimentally demonstrate a universal approach of AQuO on
a photonic qudit with minimum physical resource of a two-level ancilla and a
$\log_{2}d$-scale circuit depth for a $d$-dimensional system. The AQuO is then
applied in quantum trajectory simulation for quantum subspace stabilization and
quantum Zeno dynamics, as well as incoherent manipulation and generalized
measurements of the qudit. Therefore, the demonstrated AQuO for complete
quantum control would play an indispensable role in quantum information
science.

Quantum computers can exploit a Hilbert space whose dimension increases
exponentially with the number of qubits. In experiment, quantum supremacy has
recently been achieved by the Google team by using a noisy intermediate-scale
quantum (NISQ) device with over 50 qubits. However, the question of what can be
implemented on NISQ devices is still not fully explored, and discovering useful
tasks for such devices is a topic of considerable interest. Hybrid
quantum-classical algorithms are regarded as well-suited for execution on NISQ
devices by combining quantum computers with classical computers, and are
expected to be the first useful applications for quantum computing. Meanwhile,
mitigation of errors on quantum processors is also crucial to obtain reliable
results. In this article, we review the basic results for hybrid
quantum-classical algorithms and quantum error mitigation techniques. Since
quantum computing with NISQ devices is an actively developing field, we expect
this review to be a useful basis for future studies.

Quantum computers are expected to have substantial impact on the finance
industry, as they will be able to solve certain problems considerably faster
than the best known classical algorithms. In this article we describe such
potential applications of quantum computing to finance, starting with the
state-of-the-art and focusing in particular on recent works by the QC Ware
team. We consider quantum speedups for Monte Carlo methods, portfolio
optimization, and machine learning. For each application we describe the extent
of quantum speedup possible and estimate the quantum resources required to
achieve a practical speedup. The near-term relevance of these quantum finance
algorithms varies widely across applications - some of them are heuristic
algorithms designed to be amenable to near-term prototype quantum computers,
while others are proven speedups which require larger-scale quantum computers
to implement. We also describe powerful ways to bring these speedups closer to
experimental feasibility - in particular describing lower depth algorithms for
Monte Carlo methods and quantum machine learning, as well as quantum annealing
heuristics for portfolio optimization. This article is targeted at financial
professionals and no particular background in quantum computation is assumed.

Universal quantum computation is usually associated with interaction among
two-level quantum subsystems, as this interaction is commonly viewed as a
necessity to achieve universal quantum computation. In this work, we show that,
contrary to this intuition, universal quantum computation can be achieved
without interaction among initially independent two-level quantum subsystems.
We call it counterfactual universal quantum computation. As special cases, we
show how to achieve counterfactual communication of quantum states,
counterfactual quantum swapping, and counterfactual quantum erasure codes. To
ease practical implementation, we analyze counterfactual universal quantum
computation with realistic devices, including the effects of finite execution
time, photon loss, and atom missing. Besides the theoretical interest of
illustrating the mysterious and counterintuitive nature of quantum physics, our
work has practical applications to color imaging of ancient arts, upon which
light is forbidden to shine.

The field of classical stochastic processes forms a major branch of
mathematics. They are, of course, also very well studied in biology, chemistry,
ecology, geology, finance, physics, and many more fields of natural and social
sciences. When it comes to quantum stochastic processes, however, the topic is
plagued with pathological issues that have led to fierce debates amongst
researchers. Recent developments have begun to untangle these issues and paved
the way for generalizing the theory of classical stochastic processes to the
quantum domain without ambiguities. This tutorial details the structure of
quantum stochastic processes, in terms of the modern language of quantum combs,
and is aimed at students in quantum physics and quantum information theory. We
begin with the basics of classical stochastic processes and generalize the same
ideas to the quantum domain. Along the way, we discuss the subtle structure of
quantum physics that has led to troubles in forming an overarching theory for
quantum stochastic processes. We close the tutorial by laying out many exciting
problems that lie ahead in this branch of science.

Continuous-variable quantum information, encoded into infinite-dimensional
quantum systems, is a promising platform for the realization of many quantum
information protocols, including quantum computation, quantum metrology,
quantum cryptography, and quantum communication. To successfully demonstrate
these protocols, an essential step is the certification of multimode
continuous-variable quantum states and quantum devices. This problem is well
studied under the assumption that multiple uses of the same device result into
identical and independently distributed (i.i.d.) operations. However, in
realistic scenarios, identical and independent state preparation and calls to
the quantum devices cannot be generally guaranteed. Important instances include
adversarial scenarios and instances of time-dependent and correlated noise. In
this paper, we propose the first set of reliable protocols for verifying
multimode continuous-variable entangled states and devices in these non-i.i.d
scenarios. Although not fully universal, these protocols are applicable to
Gaussian quantum states, non-Gaussian hypergraph states, as well as
amplification, attenuation, and purification of noisy coherent states.

Digital quantum simulation on quantum systems require algorithms that can be
implemented using finite quantum resources. Recent studies have demonstrated
digital quantum simulation of open quantum systems on Noisy Intermediate-Scale
Quantum (NISQ) devices. In this work, we develop quantum circuits for optimal
simulation of Markovian and Non-Markovian open quantum systems. The circuits
use ancilla qubits to simulate the environment, and memory effects are induced
by storing information about the system on extra qubits. We simulate the
amplitude damping channel and dephasing channel as examples of the framework
and infer (Non-)Markovianity from the (non-)monotonic behaviour of the
dynamics. Further, we develop a method to optimize simulations by decomposing
complex open quantum dynamics into smaller parts, that can be simulated using a
small number of qubits. We show that this optimization reduces quantum space
complexity from $O(l)$ to $O(1)$ for simulating the environment.

Topological quantum phases of quantum materials are defined through their
topological invariants. These topological invariants are quantities that
characterize the global geometrical properties of the quantum wave functions
and thus are immune to local noise. Here, we present a strategy to measure
topological invariants on quantum computers. We show that our strategy can be
easily integrated with the variational quantum eigensolver (VQE) so that the
topological properties of generic quantum many-body states can be characterized
on current quantum hardware. We demonstrate the robust nature of the method by
measuring topological invariants for both non-interacting and interacting
models, and map out interacting quantum phase diagrams on quantum simulators
and IBM quantum hardware.

Photonics offers unique advantages as a substrate for quantum information
processing, but imposes fundamental scalability challenges. Nondeterministic
schemes impose massive resource overheads, while deterministic schemes require
prohibitively many identical quantum emitters to realize sizeable quantum
circuits. Here we propose a scalable architecture for a photonic quantum
computer which needs minimal quantum resources to implement any quantum
circuit: a single coherently controlled atom. Optical switches endow a photonic
quantum state with a synthetic time dimension by modulating photon-atom
couplings. Quantum operations applied to the atomic qubit can be teleported
onto the photonic qubits via projective measurement, and arbitrary quantum
circuits can be compiled into a sequence of these teleported operators. This
design negates the need for many identical quantum emitters to be integrated
into a photonic circuit and allows effective all-to-all connectivity between
photonic qubits. The proposed device has a machine size which is independent of
quantum circuit depth, does not require single-photon detectors, operates
deterministically, and is robust to experimental imperfections.

In this paper, we inaugurate the field of quantum fair machine learning. We
undertake a comparative analysis of differences and similarities between
classical and quantum fair machine learning algorithms, specifying how the
unique features of quantum computation alter measures, metrics and remediation
strategies when quantum algorithms are subject to fairness constraints. We
present the first results in quantum fair machine learning by demonstrating the
use of Grover's search algorithm to satisfy statistical parity constraints
imposed on quantum algorithms. We provide lower-bounds on iterations needed to
achieve such statistical parity within $\epsilon$-tolerance. We extend
canonical Lipschitz-conditioned individual fairness criteria to the quantum
setting using quantum metrics. We examine the consequences for typical measures
of fairness in machine learning context when quantum information processing and
quantum data are involved. Finally, we propose open questions and research
programmes for this new field of interest to researchers in computer science,
ethics and quantum computation.

Although the current information revolution is still unfolding, the next
industrial revolution is already rearing its head. A second quantum revolution
based on quantum technology will power this new industrial revolution with
quantum computers as its engines. The development of quantum computing will
turn quantum theory into quantum technology, hence release the power of quantum
phenomena, and exponentially accelerate the progress of science and technology.
Building a large-scale quantum computing is at the juncture of science and
engineering. Even if large-scale quantum computers become reality, they cannot
make the conventional computers obsolete soon. Building a large-scale quantum
computer is a daunting complex engineering problem to integrate ultra-low
temperature with room temperature and micro-world with macro-world. We have
built hundreds of physical qubits already but are still working on logical and
topological qubits. Since physical qubits cannot tolerate errors, they cannot
be used to perform long precise calculations to solve practically useful
problems yet.

We investigate relations between topology and the quantum metric of
two-dimensional Chern insulators. The quantum metric is the Riemannian metric
defined on a parameter space induced from quantum states. Similar to the Berry
curvature, the quantum metric provides a geometrical structure associated to
quantum states. We consider the volume of the parameter space measured with the
quantum metric, which we call the quantum volume of the parameter space. We
establish an inequality between the quantum volume of the Brillouin zone and
that of the twist-angle space. Exploiting this inequality and the inequality
between the Chern number and the quantum volume, we investigate how the quantum
volume can be used as a good measure to infer the Chern number. The
inequalities are found to be saturated for fermions filling Landau levels.
Through various concrete models, we elucidate conditions when the quantum
volume gives a good estimate of the topology of the system.

Quantum teleportation, the faithful transfer of an unknown input state onto a
remote quantum system, is a key component in long distance quantum
communication protocols and distributed quantum computing. At the same time,
high frequency nano-optomechanical systems hold great promise as nodes in a
future quantum network, operating on-chip at low-loss optical telecom
wavelengths with long mechanical lifetimes. Recent demonstrations include
entanglement between two resonators, a quantum memory and microwave to optics
transduction. Despite these successes, quantum teleportation of an optical
input state onto a long-lived optomechanical memory is an outstanding
challenge. Here we demonstrate quantum teleportation of a polarization-encoded
optical input state onto the joint state of a pair of nanomechanical
resonators. Our protocol also allows for the first time to store and retrieve
an arbitrary qubit state onto a dual-rail encoded optomechanical quantum
memory. This work demonstrates the full functionality of a single quantum
repeater node, and presents a key milestone towards applications of
optomechanical systems as quantum network nodes.

The early definition of a quantum neural network as a new field that combines
the classical neurocomputing with quantum computing was rather vague and
satisfactory in the 2000s. The widespread in 2020 modern definition of a
quantum neural network as a model or machine learning algorithm that combines
the functions of quantum computing with artificial neural networks deprives
quantum neural networks of their fundamental importance. We argue that the
concept of a quantum neural network should be defined in terms of its most
general function as a tool for representing the amplitude of an arbitrary
quantum process. Our reasoning is based on the use of the Feynman path integral
formulation in quantum mechanics. This approach has been used in many works to
investigate the main problem of quantum cosmology, such as the origin of the
Universe. In fact, the question of whether our Universe is a quantum computer
was posed by Seth Lloyd, who gave the answer is yes, but we argue that the
universe can be thought of as a quantum neural network.

Recent advances in quantum computing have drawn considerable attention to
building realistic application for and using quantum computers. However,
designing a suitable quantum circuit architecture requires expert knowledge.
For example, it is non-trivial to design a quantum gate sequence for generating
a particular quantum state with as fewer gates as possible. We propose a
quantum architecture search framework with the power of deep reinforcement
learning (DRL) to address this challenge. In the proposed framework, the DRL
agent can only access the Pauli-$X$, $Y$, $Z$ expectation values and a
predefined set of quantum operations for learning the target quantum state, and
is optimized by the advantage actor-critic (A2C) and proximal policy
optimization (PPO) algorithms. We demonstrate a successful generation of
quantum gate sequences for multi-qubit GHZ states without encoding any
knowledge of quantum physics in the agent. The design of our framework is
rather general and can be employed with other DRL architectures or optimization
methods to study gate synthesis and compilation for many quantum states.

Quantum Computing has been evolving in the last years. Although nowadays
quantum algorithms performance has shown superior to their classical
counterparts, quantum decoherence and additional auxiliary qubits needed for
error tolerance routines have been huge barriers for quantum algorithms
efficient use. These restrictions lead us to search for ways to minimize
algorithms costs, i.e the number of quantum logical gates and the depth of the
circuit. For this, quantum circuit synthesis and quantum circuit optimization
techniques are explored. We studied the viability of using Projective
Simulation, a reinforcement learning technique, to tackle the problem of
quantum circuit synthesis for noise quantum computers with limited number of
qubits. The agent had the task of creating quantum circuits up to 5 qubits to
generate GHZ states in the IBM Tenerife (IBM QX4) quantum processor. Our
simulations demonstrated that the agent had a good performance but its capacity
for learning new circuits decreased as the number of qubits increased.

Recently Brakerski, Christiano, Mahadev, Vazirani and Vidick (FOCS 2018) have
shown how to construct a test of quantumness based on the learning with errors
(LWE) assumption: a test that can be solved efficiently by a quantum computer
but cannot be solved by a classical polynomial-time computer under the LWE
assumption. This test has lead to several cryptographic applications. In
particular, it has been applied to producing certifiable randomness from a
single untrusted quantum device, self-testing a single quantum device and
device-independent quantum key distribution.
  In this paper, we show that this test of quantumness, and essentially all the
above applications, can actually be implemented by a very weak class of quantum
circuits: constant-depth quantum circuits combined with logarithmic-depth
classical computation. This reveals novel complexity-theoretic properties of
this fundamental test of quantumness and gives new concrete evidence of the
superiority of small-depth quantum circuits over classical computation.

Implementing variational quantum algorithms with noisy intermediate-scale
quantum machines of up to a hundred qubits is nowadays considered as one of the
most promising routes towards achieving a quantum practical advantage. In
multiqubit circuits, running advanced quantum algorithms is hampered by the
noise inherent to quantum gates which distances us from the idea of universal
quantum computing. Based on a one-dimensional quantum spin chain with competing
symmetric and asymmetric pairwise exchange interactions, herein we discuss the
capabilities of quantum algorithms with special attention paid to a
hardware-efficient variational eigensolver. A delicate interplay between
magnetic interactions allows one to stabilize a chiral state that destroys the
homogeneity of magnetic ordering, thus making this solution highly entangled.
Quantifying entanglement in terms of quantum concurrence, we argue that, while
being capable of correctly reproducing a uniform magnetic configuration, the
hardware-efficient ansatz meets difficulties in providing a detailed
description to a noncollinear magnetic structure. The latter naturally limits
the application range of variational quantum computing to solve quantum
simulation tasks.

The quantumness of Dirac paticles for quantized fields in a dilatonic black
hole is estimated by means of quantum channel. We develop a general Bloch
vector representation of quantum channel in black hole spacetimes beyond single
mode approximation. The nonclassicality of Dirac particles can be measured by
the minimization of quantum coherence over all orthonormal basis sets. The
quantumness of the channel decreases as the dilaton parameter increases. The
interplay between the external reservoir noise and dilaton black hole on the
dynamical behavior of quantum coherence and steerability is investigated in the
Pauli basis. The external environment is modelled by a random telegraph noise
channel. The monotonous decay of quantum nonlocality occurs in the weak
coupling case. The degradation and revival of quantum nonlocality are observed
in the strong coupling condition. It is found that quantum fluctuation effects
of the external reservoir can protect quantum coherence and steerability from
the information loss of the black hole.

Besides quantum entanglement and steering, quantum coherence has also been
identified as a useful quantum resource in quantum information. It is important
to investigate the evolution of quantum coherence in practical quantum
channels. In this paper, we experimentally quantify the quantum coherence of a
squeezed state and a Gaussian Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen (EPR) entangled state
transmitted in Gaussian thermal noise channel, respectively. By reconstructing
the covariance matrix of the transmitted states, quantum coherence of these
Gaussian states is quantified by calculating the relative entropy. We show that
quantum coherence of the squeezed state and the Gaussian EPR entangled state is
robust against loss and noise in a quantum channel, which is different from the
properties of squeezing and Gaussian entanglement. Our experimental results
pave the way for application of Gaussian quantum coherence in lossy and noisy
environments.

High-fidelity quantum gates are essential for large-scale quantum
computation. However, any quantum manipulation will inevitably affected by
noises, systematic errors and decoherence effects, which lead to infidelity of
a target quantum task. Therefore, implementing high-fidelity, robust and fast
quantum gates is highly desired. Here, we propose a fast and robust scheme to
construct high-fidelity holonomic quantum gates for universal quantum
computation based on resonant interaction of three-level quantum systems via
shortcuts to adiabaticity. In our proposal, the target Hamiltonian to induce
noncyclic non-Abelian geometric phases can be inversely engineered with less
evolution time and demanding experimentally, leading to high-fidelity quantum
gates in a simple setup. Besides, our scheme is readily realizable in physical
system currently pursued for implementation of quantum computation. Therefore,
our proposal represents a promising way towards fault-tolerant geometric
quantum computation.

Because quantum computers are expensive, it is envisaged that individuals who
want to utilize them would do so by delegating their calculations to someone
who has a quantum computer. When quantum computer users delegate computations
to quantum servers, they wish to keep information about their calculations
hidden from the servers. The protocol of delegating a calculation while hiding
information about the calculation from the server is called {\sl blind quantum
computation protocol}. Prior research on single-server's blind quantum
computation protocol required users to have quantum capabilities. Prior
research on multiple-servers' blind quantum computation protocols required
users to have just classical capabilities but imposed limits on the
server-to-server communication. There are no known single-server blind quantum
computation protocols with a classical user and multiple-servers blind quantum
computation protocols that allows servers to communicate freely with each
other. We show that the existence of these protocols is equivalence.

Quantum Monte Carlo and quantum simulation are both important tools for
understanding quantum many-body systems. As a classical algorithm, quantum
Monte Carlo suffers from the sign problem, preventing its application to most
fermion systems and real time dynamics. In this paper, we introduce a novel
non-variational algorithm using quantum simulation as a subroutine to
accelerate quantum Monte Carlo by easing the sign problem. The quantum
subroutine can be implemented with shallow circuits and, by incorporating error
mitigation, can reduce the Monte Carlo variance by several orders of magnitude
even when the circuit noise is significant. As such, the proposed quantum
algorithm is applicable to near-term noisy quantum hardware.

We introduce concurrent quantum non-local games, quantum output mirror games
and concurrent classical-to-quantum non-local games, as quantum versions of
synchronous non-local games, and provide tracial characterisations of their
perfect strategies belonging to various correlation classes. We define
*-algebras and C*-algebras of concurrent classical-to-quantum and concurrent
quantum non-local games, and algebraic versions of the orthogonal rank of a
graph. We show that quantum homomorphisms of quantum graphs can be viewed as
entanglement assisted classical homomorphisms of the graphs, and give
descriptions of the perfect quantum commuting and the perfect approximately
quantum strategies for the quantum graph homomorphism game. We specialise the
latter results to the case where the inputs of the game are based on a
classical graph.

The use of classical computers to simulate quantum computing has been
successful in aiding the study of quantum algorithms and circuits that are too
complex to examine analytically. Current implementations of quantum computing
simulators are limited to two-level quantum systems. Recent advances in
high-dimensional quantum computing systems have demonstrated the viability of
working with multi-level superposition and entanglement. These advances allow
an agile increase in the number of dimensions of the system while maintaining
quantum entanglement, achieving higher encoding of information and making
quantum algorithms less vulnerable to decoherence and computational errors. In
this paper, we introduce QuantumSkynet, a novel high-dimensional cloud-based
quantum computing simulator. This platform allows simulations of qudit-based
quantum algorithms. We also propose a unified generalization of
high-dimensional quantum gates, which are available for simulations in
QuantumSkynet. Finally, we report simulations and their results for qudit-based
versions of the Deutsch--Jozsa and quantum phase estimation algorithms using
QuantumSkynet.

Quantum causality violates classical intuitions of cause and effect and is a
unique quantum feature different from other quantum phenomena such as
entanglement and quantum nonlocality. In order to avoid the detection loophole
in quantum causality, we initiate the study of the detection efficiency
requirement for observing quantum causality. We first show that previous
classical causal inequalities require detection efficiency at least 95.97%
(89.44%) to show violation with quantum (nonsignaling) correlations. Next we
derive a classical causal inequality I_{222} and show that it requires lower
detection efficiency to be violated, 92.39% for quantum correlations and 81.65%
for nonsignaling correlations, hence substantially reducing the requirement on
detection. Then we extend this causal inequality to the case of multiple
measurement settings and analyze the corresponding detection efficiency. After
that, we show that previous quantum causal inequalities require detection
efficiency at least 94.29% to violate with nonsignaling correlations. We
subsequently derive a quantum causal bound J_{222} that has a lower detection
efficiency requirement of 91.02% for violation with nonsignaling correlations.
Our work paves the way towards an experimental demonstration of quantum
causality and shows that causal inequalities significantly differ from Bell
inequalities in terms of the detection efficiency requirement.

To employ a quantum device, the performance of the quantum gates in the
device needs to be evaluated first. Since the dimensionality of a quantum gate
grows exponentially with the number of qubits, evaluating the performance of a
quantum gate is a challenging task. Recently, a scheme called quantum gate
verification (QGV) has been proposed, which can verifies quantum gates with
near-optimal efficiency. In this paper, we implement a proof-of-principle
optical experiment to demonstrate this QGV scheme. We show that for a
single-qubit quantum gate, only $\sim300$ samples are needed to confirm the
fidelity of the quantum gate to be at least $97\%$ with a $99\%$ confidence
level using the QGV method, whereas, at least $\sim3000$ samples are needed to
achieve the same result using the standard quantum process tomography method.
The QGV method validated by this paper has the potential to be widely used for
the evaluation of quantum devices in various quantum information applications.

It is well-known that any quantum gate can be decomposed into the universal
gate set {T, H, CNOT}, and recent results have shown that each of these gates
can be implemented using a dynamic quantum walk, which is a continuous-time
quantum walk on a sequence of graphs. This procedure for converting a quantum
gate into a dynamic quantum walk, however, can result in long sequences of
graphs. To alleviate this, in this paper, we develop a length-3 dynamic quantum
walk that implements any single-qubit gate. Furthermore, we extend this result
to give length-3 dynamic quantum walks that implement any single-qubit gate
controlled by any number of qubits. Using these, we implement Draper's quantum
addition circuit, which is based on the quantum Fourier transform, using a
dynamic quantum walk.

Quantum process tomography is an experimental technique to fully characterize
an unknown quantum process. Standard quantum process tomography suffers from
exponentially scaling of the number of measurements with the increasing system
size. In this work, we put forward a quantum machine learning algorithm which
approximately encodes the unknown unitary quantum process into a relatively
shallow depth parametric quantum circuit. We demonstrate our method by
reconstructing the unitary quantum processes resulting from the quantum
Hamiltonian evolution and random quantum circuits up to $8$ qubits. Results
show that those quantum processes could be reconstructed with high fidelity,
while the number of input states required are at least $2$ orders of magnitude
less than required by the standard quantum process tomography.

Digital quantum simulators provide a diversified tool for solving the
evolution of quantum systems with complicated Hamiltonians and hold great
potential for a wide range of applications. Although much attention is paid to
the unitary evolution of closed quantum systems, dissipation and noise are
vital in understanding the dynamics of practical quantum systems. In this work,
we experimentally demonstrate a digital simulation of an open quantum system in
a controllable Markovian environment with the assistance of a single ancillary
qubit. By Trotterizing the quantum Liouvillians, the continuous evolution of an
open quantum system is effectively realized, and its application in error
mitigation is demonstrated by adjusting the simulated noise intensities.
High-order Trotter for open quantum dynamics is also experimentally
investigated and shows higher accuracy. Our results represent a significant
step towards hardware-efficient simulation of open quantum systems and error
mitigation in quantum algorithms in noisy intermediate-scale quantum systems.

Matrix quantum mechanics plays various important roles in theoretical
physics, such as a holographic description of quantum black holes.
Understanding quantum black holes and the role of entanglement in a holographic
setup is of paramount importance for the development of better quantum
algorithms (quantum error correction codes) and for the realization of a
quantum theory of gravity. Quantum computing and deep learning offer us
potentially useful approaches to study the dynamics of matrix quantum
mechanics. In this paper we perform a systematic survey for quantum computing
and deep learning approaches to matrix quantum mechanics, comparing them to
Lattice Monte Carlo simulations. In particular, we test the performance of each
method by calculating the low-energy spectrum.

The high public attention given to quantum computing shows that it is
perceived as an interesting topic. We want to utilize this motivating effect
for the teaching and learning of quantum physics. Specifically, we want to take
advantage of the access to real quantum computers, which various providers make
available free of charge. We show a direct and straightforward way to use
quantum computers in an introductory course on quantum physics. We use an
algorithm that solves a simple and easily understandable problem while
providing a quantum advantage. The algorithm we propose is a simple game in
which the use of quantum physics offers a winning advantage. The game is called
Quantum Penny Flip and was proposed by David A. Meyer back in 1999. It can be
easily reformulated to be described by quantum gates. We can therefore use it
to teach the programming of a quantum computer. We demonstrate its
implementation in IBM's Quantum Composer.

Quantum Non-Gaussian states are considered as a useful resource for many
tasks in quantum information processing, from quantum metrology and quantum
sensing to quantum communication and quantum key distribution. Another useful
tool that is growing attention is the newly constructed quantum switch. Its
applications in many tasks in quantum information have been proved to be
outperforming many existing schemes in quantum communication and quantum
thermometry. In this contribution, we are addressing this later to be very
useful to engineer highly non-Gaussian states from Gaussian operations whose
order is controlled by degrees of freedom of a control qubit. The non-convexity
of the set of Gaussian states and the set of Gaussian operations guarantees the
emergence of non-Gaussianity after postselection on the control qubit
deterministically, in contrast to existing protocols in the literature. The
non-classicality of the resulting states is discussed accordingly.

Applications of the quantum switch on quantum channels have recently become a
topic of intense discussion. In the present work, we show that some useless
(for communication) channels may provide useful communication under the action
of quantum switch for several information-theoretic tasks: quantum random
access codes, quantum steering, etc. We demonstrate that the quantum switch can
also be useful in preventing the loss of coherence in a system when only
coherence-breaking channels are the available channels for communication. We
also show that if a useless quantum channel does not provide useful
communication even after using a quantum switch, concatenating the channel with
another suitable quantum channel, and subsequently using the switch, one may
achieve useful communication. Finally, we discuss how the introduction of noise
in the quantum switch can reduce the advantage that the switch provides.

Recent advance in classical reinforcement learning (RL) and quantum
computation (QC) points to a promising direction of performing RL on a quantum
computer. However, potential applications in quantum RL are limited by the
number of qubits available in the modern quantum devices. Here we present two
frameworks of deep quantum RL tasks using a gradient-free evolution
optimization: First, we apply the amplitude encoding scheme to the Cart-Pole
problem; Second, we propose a hybrid framework where the quantum RL agents are
equipped with hybrid tensor network-variational quantum circuit (TN-VQC)
architecture to handle inputs with dimensions exceeding the number of qubits.
This allows us to perform quantum RL on the MiniGrid environment with
147-dimensional inputs. We demonstrate the quantum advantage of parameter
saving using the amplitude encoding. The hybrid TN-VQC architecture provides a
natural way to perform efficient compression of the input dimension, enabling
further quantum RL applications on noisy intermediate-scale quantum devices.

Over the past 27 years, quantum computing has seen a huge rise in interest
from both academia and industry. At the current rate, quantum computers are
growing in size rapidly backed up by the increase of research in the field.
Significant efforts are being made to improve the reliability of quantum
hardware and to develop suitable software to program quantum computers. In
contrast, the verification of quantum programs has received relatively less
attention. Verifying programs is especially important in the quantum setting
due to how difficult it is to program complex algorithms correctly on
resource-constrained and error-prone quantum hardware. Research into creating
verification frameworks for quantum programs has seen recent development, with
a variety of tools implemented using a collection of theoretical ideas. This
survey aims to be a short introduction into the area of formal verification of
quantum programs, bringing together theory and tools developed to date.
Further, this survey examines some of the challenges that the field may face in
the future, namely the development of complex quantum algorithms.

Quantum machine learning promises to efficiently solve important problems.
There are two persistent challenges in classical machine learning: the lack of
labeled data, and the limit of computational power. We propose a novel
framework that resolves both issues: quantum semi-supervised learning.
Moreover, we provide a protocol in systematically designing quantum machine
learning algorithms with quantum supremacy, which can be extended beyond
quantum semi-supervised learning. In the meantime, we show that naive quantum
matrix product estimation algorithm outperforms the best known classical matrix
multiplication algorithm. We showcase two concrete quantum semi-supervised
learning algorithms: a quantum self-training algorithm named the propagating
nearest-neighbor classifier, and the quantum semi-supervised K-means clustering
algorithm. By doing time complexity analysis, we conclude that they indeed
possess quantum supremacy.

A quantum memory that can store quantum states faithfully and retrieve them
on demand has wide applications in quantum information science. An efficient
quantum memory in the microwave regime working alongside quantum processors
based on superconducting quantum circuits may serve as an important
architecture for quantum computers. Here we realize on-demand storage and
retrieval of weak coherent microwave photon pulses at the single-photon level.
We implement a superconducting multi-resonator quantum memory which is composed
of a set of frequency-tunable coplanar transmission line (CPW) resonators. By
dynamically tuning the resonant frequencies of the resonators, we achieve
tunable memory bandwidth from 10 MHz to 55 MHz, with an overall storage
efficiency up to 12 % with well preserved phase coherence. We further
demonstrate on-demand storage and retrieval of a time-bin flying qubit. This
result opens up a prospect to integrate our chip-based quantum memory with the
state-of-the-art superconducting quantum circuit technology for quantum
information processing.

The application of quantum computation to accelerate machine learning
algorithms is one of the most promising areas of research in quantum
algorithms. In this paper, we explore the power of quantum learning algorithms
in solving an important class of Quantum Phase Recognition (QPR) problems,
which are crucially important in understanding many-particle quantum systems.
We prove that, under widely believed complexity theory assumptions, there
exists a wide range of QPR problems that cannot be efficiently solved by
classical learning algorithms with classical resources. Whereas using a quantum
computer, we prove the efficiency and robustness of quantum kernel methods in
solving QPR problems through Linear order parameter Observables. We numerically
benchmark our algorithm for a variety of problems, including recognizing
symmetry-protected topological phases and symmetry-broken phases. Our results
highlight the capability of quantum machine learning in predicting such quantum
phase transitions in many-particle systems.

Quantum technologies are currently the object of high expectations from
governments and private companies, as they hold the promise to shape safer and
faster ways to extract, exchange and treat information. However, despite its
major potential impact for industry and society, the question of their
energetic footprint has remained in a blind spot of current deployment
strategies. In this Perspective, I argue that quantum technologies must
urgently plan for the creation and structuration of a transverse quantum energy
initiative, connecting quantum thermodynamics, quantum information science,
quantum physics and engineering. Such initiative is the only path towards
energy efficient, sustainable quantum technologies, and to possibly bring out
an energetic quantum advantage.

Recently, Yu et al., (Commun. Theor. Phys. 73 (2021) 085103) has proposed a
scheme for "multi-output quantum teleportation" and has implemented the scheme
using an IBM quantum computer. In their so called multicast-based quantum
teleportation scheme, a sender (Alice) teleported two different quantum states
(one of which is a m-qubit GHZ class state and the other is a (m+1)-qubit GHZ
class state) to the two receivers. To perform the task, a five-qubit cluster
state was used as a quantum channel, and the scheme was realized using IBM
quantum computer for m = 1. In this comment, it is shown that the quantum
resources used by Yu et al., was extensively high. One can perform the same
task of two-party quantum teleportation using two Bell states only. The
modified scheme for multi-output teleportation using optimal resources has also
been implemented using IBM quantum computer for m = 1 and the obtained result
is compared with the result of Yu et al.

Quantum annealing is a heuristic quantum optimization algorithm that can be
used to solve combinatorial optimization problems. In recent years, advances in
quantum technologies have enabled the development of small- and
intermediate-scale quantum processors that implement the quantum annealing
algorithm for programmable use. Specifically, quantum annealing processors
produced by D-Wave Systems have been studied and tested extensively in both
research and industrial settings across different disciplines. In this paper we
provide a literature review of the theoretical motivations for quantum
annealing as a heuristic quantum optimization algorithm, the software and
hardware that is required to use such quantum processors, and the
state-of-the-art applications and proofs-of-concepts that have been
demonstrated using them. The goal of our review is to provide a centralized and
condensed source regarding applications of quantum annealing technology. We
identify the advantages, limitations, and potential of quantum annealing for
both researchers and practitioners from various fields.

We present a framework that utilizes quantum algorithms, an architecture
aware quantum noise model and an ideal simulator to benchmark quantum
computers. The benchmark metrics highlight the difference between the quantum
computer evolution and the simulated noisy and ideal quantum evolutions. We
utilize our framework for benchmarking three IBMQ systems. The use of multiple
algorithms, including continuous-time ones, as benchmarks stresses the
computers in different ways highlighting their behaviour for a diverse set of
circuits. The complexity of each quantum circuit affects the efficiency of each
quantum computer, with increasing circuit size resulting in more noisy
behaviour. Furthermore, the use of both a continuous-time quantum algorithm and
the decomposition of its Hamiltonian also allows extracting valuable
comparisons regarding the efficiency of the two methods on quantum systems. The
results show that our benchmarks provide sufficient and well-rounded
information regarding the performance of each quantum computer.

State-of-the-art noisy intermediate-scale quantum computers require
low-complexity techniques for the mitigation of computational errors inflicted
by quantum decoherence. Symmetry verification constitutes a class of quantum
error mitigation (QEM) techniques, which distinguishes erroneous computational
results from the correct ones by exploiting the intrinsic symmetry of the
computational tasks themselves. Inspired by the benefits of quantum switch in
the quantum communication theory, we propose beneficial techniques for
circuit-oriented symmetry verification that are capable of verifying the
commutativity of quantum circuits without the knowledge of the quantum state.
In particular, we propose the spatio-temporal stabilizer (STS) technique, which
generalizes the conventional quantum-domain stabilizer formalism to
circuit-oriented stabilizers. The applicability and implementational strategies
of the proposed techniques are demonstrated by using practical quantum
algorithms, including the quantum Fourier transform (QFT) and the quantum
approximate optimization algorithm (QAOA).

The use of advanced quantum neuron models for pattern recognition
applications requires fault tolerance. Therefore, it is not yet possible to
test such models on a large scale in currently available quantum processors. As
an alternative, we propose a quantum perceptron (QP) model that uses a reduced
number of multi-qubit gates and is therefore less susceptible to quantum errors
in current actual quantum computers with limited tolerance. The proposed
quantum algorithm is superior to its classical counterpart, although since it
does not take full advantage of quantum entanglement, it provides a lower
encoding power than other quantum algorithms using multiple qubit entanglement.
However, the use of separable-sate encoding allows for testing the algorithm
and different training schemes at a large scale in currently available
non-fault tolerant quantum computers. We demonstrate the performance of the
proposed model by implementing a few qubits version of the QP in a simulated
quantum computer. The proposed QP uses an N-ary encoding of the binary input
data characterizing the patterns. We develop a hybrid (quantum-classical)
training procedure for simulating the learning process of the QP and test their
efficiency.

Quantum technologies have shown immeasurable potential to effectively solve
several information processing tasks such as prime number factorization,
unstructured database search or complex macromolecule simulation. As a result
of such capability to solve certain problems that are not classically
tractable, quantum machines have the potential revolutionize the modern world
via applications such as drug design, process optimization, unbreakable
communications or machine learning. However, quantum information is prone to
suffer from errors caused by the so-called decoherence, which describes the
loss in coherence of quantum states associated to their interactions with the
surrounding environment. This decoherence phenomenon is present in every
quantum information task, be it transmission, processing or even storage of
quantum information. Consequently, the protection of quantum information via
quantum error correction codes (QECC) is of paramount importance to construct
fully operational quantum computers. Understanding environmental decoherence
processes and the way they are modeled is fundamental in order to construct
effective error correction methods capable of protecting quantum information.
In this thesis, the nature of decoherence is studied and mathematically
modelled; and QECCs are designed and optimized so that they exhibit better
error correction capabilities.

Quantum computing (QC) is a new computational paradigm whose foundations
relate to quantum physics. Notable progress has been made, driving the birth of
a series of quantum-based algorithms that take advantage of quantum
computational power. In this paper, we provide a targeted survey of the
development of QC for graph-related tasks. We first elaborate the correlations
between quantum mechanics and graph theory to show that quantum computers are
able to generate useful solutions that can not be produced by classical systems
efficiently for some problems related to graphs. For its practicability and
wide-applicability, we give a brief review of typical graph learning techniques
designed for various tasks. Inspired by these powerful methods, we note that
advanced quantum algorithms have been proposed for characterizing the graph
structures. We give a snapshot of quantum graph learning where expectations
serve as a catalyst for subsequent research. We further discuss the challenges
of using quantum algorithms in graph learning, and future directions towards
more flexible and versatile quantum graph learning solvers.

Solving electronic structure problems represents a promising field of
application for quantum computers. Currently, much effort has been spent in
devising and optimizing quantum algorithms for quantum chemistry problems
featuring up to hundreds of electrons. While quantum algorithms can in
principle outperform their classical equivalents, the polynomially scaling
runtime, with the number of constituents, can still prevent quantum simulations
of large scale systems. We propose a strategy to extend the scope of quantum
computational methods to large scale simulations using a machine learning
potential, trained on quantum simulation data. The challenge of applying
machine learning potentials in today's quantum setting arises from the several
sources of noise affecting the quantum computations of electronic energies and
forces. We investigate the trainability of a machine learning potential
selecting various sources of noise: statistical, optimization and hardware
noise.Finally, we construct the first machine learning potential from data
computed on actual IBM Quantum processors for a hydrogen molecule. This already
would allow us to perform arbitrarily long and stable molecular dynamics
simulations, outperforming all current quantum approaches to molecular dynamics
and structure optimization.

While quantum machine learning (ML) has been proposed to be one of the most
promising applications of quantum computing, how to build quantum ML models
that outperform classical ML remains a major open question. Here, we
demonstrate a Bayesian algorithm for constructing quantum kernels for support
vector machines that adapts quantum gate sequences to data. The algorithm
increases the complexity of quantum circuits incrementally by appending quantum
gates selected with Bayesian information criterion as circuit selection metric
and Bayesian optimization of the parameters of the locally optimal quantum
circuits identified. The goal is to build quantum kernels for SVM that can
solve classification problems with as little training data as possible. The
performance of the resulting quantum models for the classification problems
considered here significantly exceeds that of optimized classical models with
conventional kernels.

Quantum critical point is one key concept for studying many-body physics but
its investigation may be resource-demanding even for a quantum computer due to
the intrinsic complexity. In this paper, we propose an approach based on
variational quantum eigensolver(VQE), dubbed as Delta-VQE, for locating the
quantum critical point using only shallow quantum circuits. With Delta-VQE, the
critical point can be identified as a most confusing point, quantified as zero
difference between two variational energies that use two representative
reference states of distinct phases of matter. Remarkably, the signature of a
critical point as a minimal point can be sharper while using shallower quantum
circuits. We test the algorithm for different quantum systems and demonstrate
the usefulness of Delta-VQE. The scheme suggests a new avenue for investigating
quantum phases of matter on near-term quantum devices with limited quantum
resources.

We demonstrate the implementation of a novel machine learning framework for
probability density estimation and classification using quantum circuits. The
framework maps a training data set or a single data sample to the quantum state
of a physical system through quantum feature maps. The quantum state of the
arbitrarily large training data set summarises its probability distribution in
a finite-dimensional quantum wave function. By projecting the quantum state of
a new data sample onto the quantum state of the training data set, one can
derive statistics to classify or estimate the density of the new data sample.
Remarkably, the implementation of our framework on a real quantum device does
not require any optimisation of quantum circuit parameters. Nonetheless, we
discuss a variational quantum circuit approach that could leverage quantum
advantage for our framework.

With the development of topological field theory, the mathematical tool of
the tensor category was also introduced into physics. Traditional group theory
corresponds to a special category,group category. Tensor categories can
describe higher-order interactions and symmetric relations, while group theory
can only describe first-order interactions. In fact, the quantum circuit itself
constitutes a category. However, at present, the field of quantum computing
mainly uses group theory as a mathematical tool. If category theory is
introduced into the field of quantum simulation, the application scope of
quantum computers can be greatly expanded. This paper propose a new dynamic
simulation method,categorical quantum simulation. In our paradigm quantum
simulation is no longer based on the structure of the group theory, but based
on the structure of the tensor category. This could enable many systems that
could not be efficiently quantum simulated before.In this article we give an
concrete example of the categorical simulation of $SU(3)$ Yang-Mills theory. It
shows that categorical quantum simulation provides a new encoding
method,emergenism encoding, which saves more qubits resources than reductionism
quantum encoding. In addition, many domains can be described in the language of
category theory, which allows quantum circuits to directly encode and simulate
these domains.

Multipartite entanglement is of important resources for quantum communication
and quantum computation. Our goal in this paper is to characterize general
multipartite entangled states according to shallow quantum circuits. We firstly
prove any genuinely multipartite entanglement on finite-dimensional spaces can
be generated by using 2-layer shallow quantum circuit consisting of two
biseparable quantum channels, which the smallest nontrivial circuit depth in
the shallow quantum circuit model. We further propose a semi-device-independent
entanglement model depending on the local connection ability in the second
layer of quantum circuits. This implies a complete hierarchy of distinguishing
genuinely multipartite entangled states. It shows a completely different
multipartite nonlocality from the quantum network entanglement. These results
show new insights for the multipartite entanglement, quantum network, and
measurement-based quantum computation.

The development and the use of quantum technologies are hindered by a
fundamental challenge: Quantum materials exhibit macroscopic quantum properties
at extremely low temperatures due to the loss of quantum coherence at elevated
temperatures. Here, based on our recent discovery of room temperature
superfluorescence in perovskites, we present the Quantum Analog of Vibration
Isolation, 'QAVI', model and explain how it protects the quantum phase against
dephasing at high temperatures. We then postulate the requirements for
observation of macroscopic quantum phenomena at practical temperatures and
propose a unified model for all macroscopic quantum phase transitions. We
further present the general features of the temperature and density phase
diagram of macroscopic quantum phase transitions that are mediated by the QAVI
process and identify the similarities observed in the phase diagram of high Tc
superconductors. Understanding this fundamental quantum coherence protection
mechanism is imperative to accelerate the discovery of high temperature
macroscopic quantum phenomena, and offers significant potential for developing
quantum technologies functioning under practical conditions.

In quantum information processing (QIP), the quantum Fourier transform (QFT)
has a plethora of applications [1] [2] [3]: Shor's algorithm and phase
estimation are just a few well-known examples. Shor's quantum factorization
algorithm, one of the most widely quoted quantum algorithms [4] [5] [6] relies
heavily on the QFT and efficiently finds integer prime factors of large numbers
on quantum computers [4]. This seminal ground-breaking design for quantum
algorithms has triggered a cascade of viable alternatives to previously
unsolvable problems on a classical computer that are potentially superior and
can run in polynomial time. In this work we examine the QFT's structure and
implementation for the creation of a quantum music note detection algorithm
both on a simulated and a real quantum computer. Though formal approaches [7]
[1] [8] [9] exist for the verification of quantum algorithms, in this study we
limit ourselves to a simpler, symbolic representation which we validate using
the symbolic SymPy [10] [11] package which symbolically replicates quantum
computing processes. The algorithm is then implemented as a quantum circuit,
using IBM's qiskit [12] library and finally period detection is exemplified on
an actual single musical tone using a varying number of qubits.

How to solve the information leakage problem has become the research focus of
quantum dialogue. In this paper, in order to overcome the information leakage
problem in quantum dialogue, a novel approach for sharing the initial quantum
state privately between communicators, i.e., quantum encryption sharing, is
proposed by utilizing the idea of quantum encryption. The proposed protocol
uses EPR pairs as the private quantum key to encrypt and decrypt the traveling
photons, which can be repeatedly used after rotation. Due to quantum encryption
sharing, the public announcement on the state of the initial quantum state is
omitted, thus the information leakage problem is overcome. The
information-theoretical efficiency of the proposed protocol is nearly 100%,
much higher than previous information leakage resistant quantum dialogue
protocols. Moreover, the proposed protocol only needs single-photon
measurements and nearly uses single photons as quantum resource so that it is
convenient to implement in practice.

Quantum computing promises to tackle technological and industrial problems
insurmountable for classical computers. However, today's quantum computers
still have limited demonstrable functionality, and it is expected that scaling
up to millions of qubits is required for them to live up to this touted
promise. The feasible route in achieving practical quantum advantage goals is
to implement a hybrid operational mode that realizes the cohesion of quantum
and classical computers. Here we present a hybrid quantum cloud based on a
memory-centric and heterogeneous multiprocessing architecture, integrated into
a high-performance computing data center grade environment. We demonstrate that
utilizing the quantum cloud, our hybrid quantum algorithms including Quantum
Encoding (QuEnc), Hybrid Quantum Neural Networks and Tensor Networks enable
advantages in optimization, machine learning, and simulation fields. We show
the advantage of hybrid algorithms compared to standard classical algorithms in
both the computational speed and quality of the solution. The achieved advance
in hybrid quantum hardware and software makes quantum computing useful in
practice today.

In the current noisy intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ) era, quantum machine
learning is emerging as a dominant paradigm to program gate-based quantum
computers. In quantum machine learning, the gates of a quantum circuit are
parametrized, and the parameters are tuned via classical optimization based on
data and on measurements of the outputs of the circuit. Parametrized quantum
circuits (PQCs) can efficiently address combinatorial optimization problems,
implement probabilistic generative models, and carry out inference
(classification and regression). This monograph provides a self-contained
introduction to quantum machine learning for an audience of engineers with a
background in probability and linear algebra. It first describes the necessary
background, concepts, and tools necessary to describe quantum operations and
measurements. Then, it covers parametrized quantum circuits, the variational
quantum eigensolver, as well as unsupervised and supervised quantum machine
learning formulations.

Quantum capacity, as the key figure of merit for a given quantum channel,
upper bounds the channel's ability in transmitting quantum information.
Identifying different type of channels, evaluating the corresponding quantum
capacity and finding the capacity-approaching coding scheme are the major tasks
in quantum communication theory. Quantum channel in discrete variables has been
discussed enormously involving various error models, while error model in the
continuous variable channel has been less studied due to the infinite
dimensional problem. In this paper, we investigate a general continuous
variable quantum erasure channel. By defining an effective subspace of the
continuous variable system, we find a continuous variable random coding model.
We then derive the quantum capacity of the continuous variable erasure channel
in the framework of decoupling theory. The discussion in this paper fills the
gap of quantum erasure channel in continuous variable settings and sheds light
on the understanding of other type of continuous variable quantum channels.

We derive Margolus-Levitin and Mandelstamm-Tamm type bound on the quantum
speed limit time for the creation and decay of quantum correlations by an
amount in a quantum system evolving under the influence of its ambient
environment. The minimum distance of a non-classical state from an appropriate
set of classical states is a legitimate measure of the quantumness of the
state. We consider entanglement and quantum discord measures of quantum
correlations, quantified using the Bures distance-based measure. To demonstrate
the impact of quantum noise on this speed limit time for quantum correlations,
we estimate the quantum speed limit time for the creation and decay of quantum
correlations for a two-qubit system under modified OUN dephasing and collective
two-qubit decoherence channels.

This paper presents the benchmark score definitions of QPack, an
application-oriented cross-platform benchmarking suite for quantum computers
and simulators, which makes use of scalable Quantum Approximate Optimization
Algorithm and Variational Quantum Eigensolver applications. Using a varied set
of benchmark applications, an insight of how well a quantum computer or its
simulator performs on a general NISQ-era application can be quantitatively
made. This paper presents what quantum execution data can be collected and
transformed into benchmark scores for application-oriented quantum
benchmarking. Definitions are given for an overall benchmark score, as well as
sub-scores based on runtime, accuracy, scalability and capacity performance.
Using these scores, a comparison is made between various quantum computer
simulators, running both locally and on vendors' remote cloud services. We also
use the QPack benchmark to collect a small set of quantum execution data of the
IBMQ Nairobi quantum processor. The goal of the QPack benchmark scores is to
give a holistic insight into quantum performance and the ability to make easy
and quick comparisons between different quantum computers

Quantum computing is a promising way to systematically solve the longstanding
computational problem, the ground state of a many-body fermion system. Many
efforts have been made to realise certain forms of quantum advantage in this
problem, for instance, the development of variational quantum algorithms. A
recent work by Huggins et al. reports a novel candidate, i.e. a
quantum-classical hybrid Monte Carlo algorithm with a reduced bias in
comparison to its fully-classical counterpart. In this paper, we propose a
family of scalable quantum-assisted Monte Carlo algorithms where the quantum
computer is used at its minimal cost and still can reduce the bias. By
incorporating a Bayesian inference approach, we can achieve this
quantum-facilitated bias reduction with a much smaller quantum-computing cost
than taking empirical mean in amplitude estimation. Besides, we show that the
hybrid Monte Carlo framework is a general way to suppress errors in the ground
state obtained from classical algorithms. Our work provides a Monte Carlo
toolkit for achieving quantum-enhanced calculation of fermion systems on
near-term quantum devices.

Controlling the evolution of a photonic quantum states is crucial for most
quantum information processing and metrology tasks. Because of its importance,
many mechanisms of quantum state evolution have been tested in detail and are
well understood. However, the fundamental phase anomaly of evolving waves
called the Gouy phase has not been studied in the context of elementary quantum
states of light such as photon number states. Here we outline a simple method
for calculating the quantum state evolution upon propagation and demonstrate
experimentally how this quantum Gouy phase affects two-photon quantum states.
Our results show that the increased phase sensitivity of multi-photon states
also extends to this fundamental phase anomaly and has to be taken into account
to fully understand the state evolution. We further demonstrate how the Gouy
phase can be used as a tool for manipulating quantum states of any bosonic
system in future quantum technologies, outline a possible application in
quantum-enhanced sensing, and dispel a common misconception related to the
nature of the increased phase sensitivity of multi-photon quantum states.

Quantum communication technologies will play an important role in quantum
information processing in the near future as we network devices together.
However, their implementation is still a challenging task due to both loss and
gate errors. Quantum error correction codes are one important technique to
address this issue. In particular, the Quantum Reed-Solomon codes are known to
be quite efficient for quantum communication tasks. The high degree of physical
resources required, however, makes such a code difficult to use in practice. A
recent technique called quantum multiplexing has been shown to reduce resources
by using multiple degrees of freedom of a photon. In this work, we propose a
method to decompose multi-controlled gates using fewer $\rm{CX}$ gates via this
quantum multiplexing technique. We show that our method can significantly
reduce the required number of $\rm{CX}$ gates needed in the encoding circuits
for the quantum Reed-Solomon code. Our approach is also applicable to many
other quantum error correction codes and quantum algorithms, including Grovers
and quantum walks.

Quantum computing and quantum Monte Carlo (QMC) are respectively the
state-of-the-art quantum and classical computing methods for understanding
many-body quantum systems. Here, we propose a hybrid quantum-classical
algorithm that integrates these two methods, inheriting their distinct features
in efficient representation and manipulation of quantum states and overcoming
their limitations. We first introduce non-stoquasticity indicators (NSIs) and
their upper bounds, which measure the sign problem, the most notable limitation
of QMC. We show that our algorithm could greatly mitigate the sign problem,
which decreases NSIs with the assistance of quantum computing. Meanwhile, the
use of quantum Monte Carlo also increases the expressivity of shallow quantum
circuits, allowing more accurate computation that is conventionally achievable
only with much deeper circuits. We numerically test and verify the method for
the N$_2$ molecule (12 qubits) and the Hubbard model (16 qubits). Our work
paves the way to solving practical problems with intermediate-scale and
early-fault tolerant quantum computers, with potential applications in
chemistry, condensed matter physics, materials, high energy physics, etc.

We study the classical, classical-quantum, and quantum parts of conditional
mutual information in the ``system-environment-ancilla'' setting of open
quantum systems. We perform the separation of conditional mutual information by
generalizing the classification of correlations of quantum states. The
condition for identifying the classical part of conditional mutual information
is given by adapting the no-local-broadcasting theorem to this setting, while
the condition for classical-quantum part of conditional mutual information is
obtained by considering the multipartite quantum discord and the
no-unilocal-broadcasting theorem. For the quantum part of conditional mutual
information, we further generalize the characterization of entanglement by
quantum discord of state extensions to the multipatite setting, so as to derive
a generalized Koashi-Winter-type monogamy equality for conditional mutual
information. Our results have explicit dependence on the extensions of
environment, which are useful for studying different environmental
contributions to the quantum non-Markovianity of open quantum systems.

Recent development in quantum information sciences and technologies,
especially building programmable quantum computers, provide us new
opportunities to study fundamental aspects of quantum mechanics. We propose
qubit models to emulate the quantum measurement process, in which the quantum
information of a qubit is mapped to a collection of qubits acting as the
measurement device. One model is motivated by single-photon detection and the
other by spin measurement. Both models are scalable to generate Schr\"{o}dinger
cat-like state, and their corresponding quantum circuits are shown explicitly.
Large-scale simulations could be realized in near-term quantum computers, while
classical computers cannot perform the same task efficiently. Due to the
scalability of the models, such simulations can help explore the
quantum-to-classical boundary, if exists, in the quantum measurement problem.
Besides, our protocol to generate cat states may have important applications in
quantum computing and metrology.

Quantum neural networks are promising for a wide range of applications in the
Noisy Intermediate-Scale Quantum era. As such, there is an increasing demand
for automatic quantum neural architecture search. We tackle this challenge by
designing a quantum circuits metric for Bayesian optimization with Gaussian
process. To this goal, we propose a new quantum gates distance that
characterizes the gates' action over every quantum state and provide a
theoretical perspective on its geometrical properties. Our approach
significantly outperforms the benchmark on three empirical quantum machine
learning problems including training a quantum generative adversarial network,
solving combinatorial optimization in the MaxCut problem, and simulating
quantum Fourier transform. Our method can be extended to characterize behaviors
of various quantum machine learning models.

In the century following its discovery, applications for quantum physics are
opening a new world of technological possibilities. With the current decade
witnessing quantum supremacy, quantum technologies are already starting to
change the ways information is generated, transmitted, stored and processed.
The next major milestone in quantum technology is already rapidly emerging --
the quantum internet. Since light is the most logical candidate for quantum
communication, quantum photonics is a critical enabling technology. This paper
reviews the hardware aspects of the quantum internet, mainly from a photonics
perspective. Though a plethora of quantum technologies and devices have emerged
in recent years, we are more focused on devices or components that may enable
the quantum internet. Our approach is primarily qualitative, providing a broad
overview of the necessary technologies for a large-scale quantum internet.

There are strong evidences in the literature that quantum non-Markovianity
would hinder the presence of Quantum Darwinism. In this Letter, we study the
relation between quantum Darwinism and approximate quantum Markovianity for
open quantum systems by exploiting the properties of quantum conditional mutual
information. We show that for approximately Markovian quantum processes the
conditional mutual information still has the scaling property for Quantum
Darwinism. Then two general bounds on the backflow of information are obtained,
with which we can show that the presence of Quantum Darwinism restricts the
information backflow and the quantum non-Markovianity must be small.

The quantum speed limit describes how quickly a quantum system can evolve in
time from an initial state to a final state under a given dynamics. Here, we
derive a generalised quantum speed limit (GQSL) for arbitrary time-continuous
evolution using the geometrical approach of quantum mechanics. The GQSL is
applicable for quantum systems undergoing unitary, non-unitary, completely
positive, non-completely positive and relativistic quantum dynamics. This
reduces to the well known standard quantum speed limit (QSL), i.e., the
Mandelstam-Tamm bound when the quantum system undergoes unitary time evolution.
Using our formalism, we then obtain a quantum speed limit for non-Hermitian
quantum systems. To illustrate our findings, we have estimated the quantum
speed limit for a time-independent non-Hermitian system as well as for a
time-dependent non-Hermitian system namely the Bethe-Lamb Hamiltonian for
general two-level system.

We propose a concept of quantum extensive-form games, which is a quantum
extension of classical extensive-form games. Extensive-form games is a general
concept of games such as Go, Shogi, and chess, which have triggered the recent
AI revolution, and is the basis for many important game theoretic models in
economics. Quantum transitions allow for pairwise annihilation of paths in the
quantum game tree, resulting in a probability distribution that is more likely
to produce a particular outcome. This is similar in principle to the mechanism
of speed-up by quantum computation represented by Grover's algorithm. A quantum
extensive-form game is also a generalization of quantum learning, including
Quantum Generative Adversarial Networks. As an new example of quantum
extensive-form games, we propose a quantum form of the Angel problem originally
proposed by Conway in 1996. The classical problem has been solved but by
quantizing it, the game becomes non-trivial.

Schrieffer-Wolff transformation (SWT) has been extensively used in quantum
many-body physics to calculate the low energy effective Hamiltonian. It
provides a perturbative method to comprehend the renormalization effects of
strong correlations in the quantum many-body models. The generator for
Schrieffer-Wolff transformation is calculated usually by heuristic methods.
Recently, a systematic and elegant method for the calculation of this extremely
significant transformation has been reported [1]. Given the huge significance
of SWT for many areas including quantum condensed matter physics, quantum
optics and quantum cavity electrodynamics, it is imperative to develop quantum
algorithm for carrying out SWT on quantum computer. In this paper, we put
forward this quantum algorithm and demonstrate it for single impurity Anderson
model (SIAM), thereby arriving at Kondo model as effective Hamiltonian. We
implement our quantum algorithm in QisKit and carry out SWT for SIAM on IBM
Quantum computers. To the best of our knowledge, this work is the first of its
kind to obtain Kondo model from Anderson impurity model using a quantum
algorithm.

The prevalence of quantum crosstalk in current quantum devices poses
challenges for achieving high-fidelity quantum logic operations and reliable
quantum processing. Through quantum control theory, we develop an analytical
condition for achieving crosstalk-robust single-qubit control of multi-qubit
systems. We examine the effects of quantum crosstalk via a cumulant expansion
and develop a condition to suppress the leading order contributions to the
dynamics. The efficacy of the condition is illustrated in the domains of
quantum state preservation and noise characterization through the development
of crosstalk-robust dynamical decoupling and quantum noise spectroscopy (QNS)
protocols. Using the IBM Quantum Experience, crosstalk-robust state
preservation is demonstrated on 27 qubits, where a $3\times$ improvement in
coherence decay is observed for single-qubit product and multipartite entangled
states. Through the use of noise injection, we experimentally demonstrate
crosstalk-robust dephasing QNS on a seven qubit processor, where a $10^4$
improvement in reconstruction accuracy over ``cross-susceptible" alternatives
is found. Together, these experiments highlight the significant impact the
crosstalk mitigation condition can have on improving multi-qubit
characterization and control on current quantum devices.

Uncertainty relation is a fundamental issue in quantum mechanics and quantum
information theory. By using modified generalized variance (MGV), and modified
generalized Wigner-Yanase-Dyson skew information (MGWYD), we identify the total
and quantum uncertainty of quantum channels. The elegant properties of the
total uncertainty of quantum channels are explored in detail. In addition, we
present a trade-off relation between the total uncertainty of quantum channels
and the entanglement fidelity and establish the relationships between the total
uncertainty and entropy exchange/coherent information. Detailed examples are
given to the explicit formulas of the total uncertainty and the quantum
uncertainty of quantum channels. Moreover, utilizing a realizable experimental
measurement scheme by using the Mach-Zehnder interferometer proposed in Nirala
et al. (Phys Rev A 99:022111, 2019), we discuss how to measure the
total/quantum uncertainty of quantum channels for pure states.

Over the last decade, Quantum Computing hardware has rapidly developed and
become a very intriguing, promising, and active research field among scientists
worldwide. To achieve the desired quantum functionalities, quantum algorithms
require translation from a high-level description to a machine-specific
physical operation sequence. In contrast to classical compilers,
state-of-the-art quantum compilers are in their infancy. We believe there is a
research need for a quantum compiler that can deal with generic unitary
operators and generate basic unitary operations according to quantum machines'
diverse underlying technologies and characteristics. In this work, we introduce
the Quantum Netlist Compiler (QNC) that converts arbitrary unitary operators or
desired initial states of quantum algorithms to OpenQASM-2.0 circuits enabling
them to run on actual quantum hardware. Extensive simulations were run on the
IBM quantum systems. The results show that QNC is well suited for quantum
circuit optimization and produces circuits with competitive success rates in
practice.

Quantum phase transitions universally exist in the ground and excited states
of quantum many-body systems, and they have a close relationship with the
nonequilibrium dynamical phase transitions, which however are challenging to
identify. In the system of spin-1 Bose-Einstein condensates, though dynamical
phase transitions with correspondence to equilibrium phase transitions in the
ground state and uppermost excited state have been probed, those taken place in
intermediate excited states remain untouched in experiments thus far. Here we
unravel that both the ground and excited-state quantum phase transitions in
spinor condensates can be diagnosed with dynamical phase transitions. A
connection between equilibrium phase transitions and nonequilibrium behaviors
of the system is disclosed in terms of the quantum Fisher information. We also
demonstrate that near the critical points parameter estimation beyond standard
quantum limit can be implemented. This work not only advances the exploration
of excited-state quantum phase transitions via a scheme that can immediately be
applied to a broad class of few-mode quantum systems, but also provides new
perspective on the relationship between quantum criticality and quantum
enhanced sensing.

Quantum computers may achieve speedups over their classical counterparts for
solving linear algebra problems. However, in some cases -- such as for low-rank
matrices -- dequantized algorithms demonstrate that there cannot be an
exponential quantum speedup. In this work, we show that quantum computers have
provable polynomial and exponential speedups in terms of communication
complexity for some fundamental linear algebra problems \update{if there is no
restriction on the rank}. We mainly focus on solving linear regression and
Hamiltonian simulation. In the quantum case, the task is to prepare the quantum
state of the result. To allow for a fair comparison, in the classical case, the
task is to sample from the result. We investigate these two problems in
two-party and multiparty models, propose near-optimal quantum protocols and
prove quantum/classical lower bounds. In this process, we propose an efficient
quantum protocol for quantum singular value transformation, which is a powerful
technique for designing quantum algorithms. This will be helpful in developing
efficient quantum protocols for many other problems.

What does it mean to commit to a quantum state? In this work, we propose a
simple answer: a commitment to quantum messages is binding if, after the commit
phase, the committed state is hidden from the sender's view. We accompany this
new definition with several instantiations. We build the first non-interactive
succinct quantum state commitments, which can be seen as an analogue of
collision-resistant hashing for quantum messages. We also show that hiding
quantum state commitments (QSCs) are implied by any commitment scheme for
classical messages. All of our constructions can be based on
quantum-cryptographic assumptions that are implied by but are potentially
weaker than one-way functions.
  Commitments to quantum states open the door to many new cryptographic
possibilities. Our flagship application of a succinct QSC is a
quantum-communication version of Kilian's succinct arguments for any language
that has quantum PCPs with constant error and polylogarithmic locality.
Plugging in the PCP theorem, this yields succinct arguments for NP under
significantly weaker assumptions than required classically; moreover, if the
quantum PCP conjecture holds, this extends to QMA. At the heart of our security
proof is a new rewinding technique for extracting quantum information.

We propose a generalization of the Wasserstein distance of order 1 to quantum
spin systems on the lattice $\mathbb{Z}^d$, which we call specific quantum
$W_1$ distance. The proposal is based on the $W_1$ distance for qudits of [De
Palma et al., IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 67, 6627 (2021)] and recovers Ornstein's
$\bar{d}$-distance for the quantum states whose marginal states on any finite
number of spins are diagonal in the canonical basis. We also propose a
generalization of the Lipschitz constant to quantum interactions on
$\mathbb{Z}^d$ and prove that such quantum Lipschitz constant and the specific
quantum $W_1$ distance are mutually dual. We prove a new continuity bound for
the von Neumann entropy for a finite set of quantum spins in terms of the
quantum $W_1$ distance, and we apply it to prove a continuity bound for the
specific von Neumann entropy in terms of the specific quantum $W_1$ distance
for quantum spin systems on $\mathbb{Z}^d$. Finally, we prove that local
quantum commuting interactions above a critical temperature satisfy a
transportation-cost inequality, which implies the uniqueness of their Gibbs
states.

The Unruh-DeWitt particle detector model has found success in demonstrating
quantum information channels with non-zero channel capacity between qubits and
quantum fields. These detector models provide the necessary framework for
experimentally realizable Unruh-DeWitt Quantum Computers with near-perfect
channel capacity. We propose spin qubits with gate-controlled coupling to
Luttinger liquids as a laboratory setting for Unruh-DeWitt detectors and
general design constraints that underpin their feasibility in this and other
settings. We also present several experimental scenarios including graphene
ribbons, edges states in the quantum spin Hall phase of HgTe quantum wells, and
the recently discovered quantum anomalous Hall phase in transition metal
dichalcogenides. Theoretically, through bosonization, we show that Unruh-DeWitt
detectors can carry out Quantum Computations and when they can make perfect
quantum communication channels between qubits via the Luttinger liquid. Our
results point the way toward an all-to-all connected solid state quantum
computer and the experimental study of quantum information in quantum fields
via condensed matter physics.

Secure multi-party quantum computation (MPQC) protocol is a versatile tool
that enables error-free distributed quantum computation to a group of $n$
mutually distrustful quantum nodes even when some of the quantum nodes do not
follow the instructions of the protocol honestly. However, in case of the MPQC
protocols built on top of the quantum error correction technique, the
versatility is significantly affected by the fact that one has to choose a
particular quantum error-correcting code (QECC), which immediately applies a
constraint on the number of quantum nodes $n$. Therefore, in this talk, we
suggest a modified MPQC protocol based on triorthogonal QECCs which applies
significantly less constraint on the number of quantum nodes $n$ if compared to
the previously suggested MPQC protocol based on triply-even QECCs. Especially,
the variety of available options in the region of a small number of quantum
nodes $n$ becomes important in the noisy intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ) era.

Quantum neural networks (QNNs), an interdisciplinary field of quantum
computing and machine learning, have attracted tremendous research interests
due to the specific quantum advantages. Despite lots of efforts developed in
computer vision domain, one has not fully explored QNNs for the real-world
graph property classification and evaluated them in the quantum device. To
bridge the gap, we propose quantum graph convolutional networks (QuanGCN),
which learns the local message passing among nodes with the sequence of
crossing-gate quantum operations. To mitigate the inherent noises from modern
quantum devices, we apply sparse constraint to sparsify the nodes' connections
and relieve the error rate of quantum gates, and use skip connection to augment
the quantum outputs with original node features to improve robustness. The
experimental results show that our QuanGCN is functionally comparable or even
superior than the classical algorithms on several benchmark graph datasets. The
comprehensive evaluations in both simulator and real quantum machines
demonstrate the applicability of QuanGCN to the future graph analysis problem.

Continuous-time quantum walk is one of the alternative approaches to quantum
computation, where a universal set of quantum gates can be achieved by
scattering a quantum walker on some specially-designed structures embedded in a
sparse graph [Childs, Phys. Rev. Lett. 2009]. Recent advances in femtosecond
laser-inscribed optical waveguides represent a promising physical platform for
realizing this quantum-walk model of quantum computation. However, the major
challenge is the problem of preparing a plane-wave initial state. Previously,
the idea of quantum slide has been proposed and experimentally realized for
demonstrating the working principle of NAND tree [Wang et al. Phy. Rev. Lett.
2020]. Here we show how quantum slide can be further applied to realize
universal quantum computation, bypassing the plane-wave requirement.
Specifically, we apply an external field to the perfect-state-transfer chain,
which can generate a moving Gaussian wave packet with an arbitrary momentum.
When the phase is properly tuned, the universal gate set in Childs' proposal
can be realized in our scheme. Furthermore, we show that the gate fidelities
increase with the length of the slide, and can reach unity asymptotically.

Quantum computing (QC) is no longer only a scientific interest but is rapidly
becoming an industrially available technology that can potentially tackle the
limitations of classical computing. Over the last few years, major technology
giants have invested in developing hardware and programming frameworks to
develop quantum-specific applications. QC hardware technologies are gaining
momentum, however, operationalizing the QC technologies trigger the need for
software-intensive methodologies, techniques, processes, tools, roles, and
responsibilities for developing industrial-centric quantum software
applications. This paper presents the vision of the quantum software
engineering (QSE) life cycle consisting of quantum requirements engineering,
quantum software design, quantum software implementation, quantum software
testing, and quantum software maintenance. This paper particularly calls for
joint contributions of software engineering research and industrial community
to present real-world solutions to support the entire quantum software
development activities. The proposed vision facilitates the researchers and
practitioners to propose new processes, reference architectures, novel tools,
and practices to leverage quantum computers and develop emerging and next
generations of quantum software.

The quantum speed limit provides a fundamental bound on how fast a quantum
system can evolve between the initial and the final states under any physical
operation. The celebrated Mandelstam-Tamm (MT) bound has been widely studied
for various quantum systems undergoing unitary time evolution. Here, we prove a
new quantum speed limit using the tighter uncertainty relations for pure
quantum systems undergoing arbitrary unitary evolution. We also derive a
tighter uncertainty relation for mixed quantum states and then derive a new
quantum speed limit for mixed quantum states from it such that it reduces to
that of the pure quantum states derived from tighter uncertainty relations. We
show that the MT bound is a special case of the tighter quantum speed limit
derived here. We also show that this bound can be improved when optimized over
many different sets of basis vectors. We illustrate the tighter speed limit for
pure states with examples using random Hamiltonians and show that the new
quantum speed limit outperforms the MT bound.

Leonard Shelby, the protagonist of Memento, uses mementos in the form of
tattoos and pictures to handle his amnesia. Similar to Leonard, contemporary
quantum computers suffer from "quantum amnesia": the inability to store quantum
registers for a long duration. Quantum computers can only retain classical
"mementos" of quantum registers by measuring them before those vanish. Some
quantum skeptics argue that this quantum amnesia is inherent. We point out that
this variant of a skeptic world is roughly described by the quantum bounded
storage model, and although it is a computational obstacle that annuls
potential quantum computational advantage, the seemingly undesired properties
provide a cryptographic advantage. Namely, providing exotic primitives promised
by the quantum bounded storage model, such as unconditionally secure commitment
and oblivious transfer schemes, with constructions involving nothing but
transmission and measurement of BB84 states.

With the advent of powerful quantum computers, the quest for more efficient
quantum algorithms becomes crucial in attaining quantum supremacy over
classical counterparts in the noisy intermediate-scale quantum era. While
Grover's search algorithm and its generalization, quantum amplitude
amplification, offer quadratic speedup in solving various important scientific
problems, their exponential time complexity limits scalability as the quantum
circuit depths grow exponentially with the number of qubits. To overcome this
challenge, we propose Variational Quantum Search (VQS), a novel algorithm based
on variational quantum algorithms and parameterized quantum circuits. We show
that a depth-10 Ansatz can amplify the total probability of $k$ ($k \geq 1$)
good elements, out of $2^n$ elements represented by $n$+1 qubits, from $k/2^n$
to nearly 1, as verified for $n$ up to 26, and that the maximum depth of
quantum circuits in the VQS increases linearly with the number of qubits. Our
experimental results have validated the efficacy of VQS and its exponential
advantage over Grover's algorithm in circuit depth for up to 26 qubits. We
demonstrate that a depth-56 circuit in VQS can replace a depth-270,989 circuit
in Grover's algorithm. Envisioning its potential, VQS holds promise to
accelerate solutions to critical problems.

Teleporting physical quantities to remote locations is a remaining key
challenge for quantum information science and technology. Quantum teleportation
has enabled the transfer of quantum information, but teleportation of quantum
physical quantities has not yet been realized. Here we report the realization
and observation of quantum energy teleportation on real superconducting quantum
hardware. We achieve this by using several IBM's superconducting quantum
computers. The results are consistent with the exact solution of the theory and
are improved by the mitigation of measurement error. Quantum energy
teleportation requires only local operations and classical communication.
Therefore our results provide a realistic benchmark that is fully achievable
with current quantum computing and communication technologies.

In quantum information, trace distance is a basic metric of
distinguishability between quantum states. However, there is no known efficient
approach to estimate the value of trace distance in general. In this paper, we
propose efficient quantum algorithms for estimating the trace distance within
additive error $\varepsilon$ between mixed quantum states of rank $r$.
Specifically, we first provide a quantum algorithm using $r \cdot \widetilde
O(1/\varepsilon^2)$ queries to the quantum circuits that prepare the
purifications of quantum states. Then, we modify this quantum algorithm to
obtain another algorithm using $\widetilde O(r^2/\varepsilon^5)$ samples of
quantum states, which can be applied to quantum state certification. These
algorithms have query/sample complexities that are independent of the dimension
$N$ of quantum states, and their time complexities only incur an extra $O(\log
(N))$ factor. In addition, we show that the decision version of low-rank trace
distance estimation is $\mathsf{BQP}$-complete.

We discuss a Quantum Non-Demolition Measurement (QNDM) protocol to estimate
the derivatives of a cost function with a quantum computer. %This is a key step
for the implementation of variational quantum circuits. The cost function,
which is supposed to be classically hard to evaluate, is associated with the
average value of a quantum operator. Then a quantum computer is used to
efficiently extract information about the function and its derivative by
evolving the system with a so-called variational quantum circuit. To this aim,
we propose to use a quantum detector that allows us to directly estimate the
derivatives of an observable, i.e., the derivative of the cost function. With
respect to the standard direct measurement approach, this leads to a reduction
of the number of circuit iterations needed to run the variational quantum
circuits. The advantage increases if we want to estimate the higher-order
derivatives. We also show that the presented approach can lead to a further
advantage in terms of the number of total logical gates needed to run the
variational quantum circuits. These results make the QNDM a valuable
alternative to implementing the variational quantum circuits.

Quantum key distribution (QKD) is a revolutionary cryptography response to
the rapidly growing cyberattacks threat posed by quantum computing. Yet, the
roadblock limiting the vast expanse of secure quantum communication is the
exponential decay of the transmitted quantum signal with the distance. Today's
quantum cryptography is trying to solve this problem by focusing on quantum
repeaters. However, efficient and secure quantum repetition at sufficient
distances is still far beyond modern technology. Here, we shift the paradigm
and build the long-distance security of the QKD upon the quantum foundations of
the Second Law of Thermodynamics and end-to-end physical oversight over the
transmitted optical quantum states. Our approach enables us to realize quantum
states' repetition by optical amplifiers keeping states' wave properties and
phase coherence. The unprecedented secure distance range attainable through our
approach opens the door for the development of scalable quantum-resistant
communication networks of the future.

Evaluating the performance of quantum devices is an important step towards
scaling quantum devices and eventually using them in practice. The great number
of available quantum metrics and the different hardware technologies used to
develop quantum computers complicate this evaluation. In addition, different
computational paradigms implement quantum operations in different ways. We add
to the landscape of quantum metrics by extending the Q-score metric of Atos to
the Q-score Max-Clique. To our knowledge, this yields the first
application-level metric which allows comparison of three different paradigms
of quantum computing. This metric is evaluated on these computational quantum
paradigms -- quantum annealing, gate-based quantum computing, and photonic
quantum computing -- and the results are compared to those obtained by
classical solvers.

We know the classical public cryptographic algorithms are based on certain
NP-hard problems such as the integer factoring in RSA and the discrete
logarithm in Diffie-Hellman. They are going to be vulnerable with
fault-tolerant quantum computers. We also know that the uncertainty principle
for quantum bits or qubits such as quantum key distribution or QKD based on the
quantum uncertainty principle offers the information theoretical security. The
interesting implication with the paradigm shifts from classical computing to
quantum computing is that the NP-hardness used for classical cryptography may
shift to the uncertainty principles for quantum cryptography including quantum
symmetric encryption, post-quantum cryptography, as well as quantum encryption
in phase space for coherent optical communications. This paper would like to
explore those so-called generalized uncertainty principles and explain what
their implications are for quantum security. We identified three generalized
uncertainty principles offering quantum security: non-commutability between
permutation gates, non-commutability between the displacement and phase shift
operators for coherent states, and the modular Diophantine Equation Problem in
general linear algebra for post-quantum cryptography.

In this paper we are interested to model quantum signal by statistical signal
processing methods. The Gaussian distribution has been considered for the input
quantum signal as Gaussian state have been proven to a type of important robust
state and most of the important experiments of quantum information are done
with Gaussian light. Along with that a joint noise model has been invoked, and
followed by a received signal model has been formulated by using convolution of
transmitted signal and joint quantum noise to realized theoretical achievable
capacity of the single quantum link. In joint quantum noise model we consider
the quantum Poisson noise with classical Gaussian noise. We compare the
capacity of the quantum channel with respect to SNR to detect its overall
tendency. In this paper we use the channel equation in terms of random variable
to investigate the quantum signals and noise model statistically. These methods
are proposed to develop Quantum statistical signal processing and the idea
comes from the statistical signal processing.

Quantum engineering seeks to create novel technologies based on the
exploitation of distinctly nonclassical behaviors such as quantum
superposition. The vast majority of currently pursued applications fall into
the domain of quantum information science, with quantum computing as the most
visible subdomain. However, other applications of quantum engineering are fast
emerging. Here, we review the deployment of quantum engineering principles in
the fields of solar energy, batteries, and nuclear energy. We identify
commonalities across quantum engineering approaches in those apparently
disparate fields and draw direct parallels to quantum information science. We
find that a shared knowledge base is forming, which de facto corresponds to a
new domain that we refer to as 'quantum energy science'. Quantum energy science
bears the promise of substantial performance improvements across energy
technologies such as organic solar cells, quantum batteries, and nuclear
fusion. The recognition of this emerging domain may be of great relevance to
actors concerned with energy innovation. It may also benefit active researchers
in this domain by increasing visibility and motivating the deployment of
resources and institutional support.

Portfolio optimization is an inseparable part of strategic asset allocation
at the Czech National Bank. Quantum computing is a new technology offering
algorithms for that problem. The capabilities and limitations of quantum
computers with regard to portfolio optimization should therefore be
investigated. In this paper, we focus on applications of quantum algorithms to
dynamic portfolio optimization based on the Markowitz model. In particular, we
compare algorithms for universal gate-based quantum computers (the QAOA, the
VQE and Grover adaptive search), single-purpose quantum annealers, the
classical exact branch and bound solver and classical heuristic algorithms
(simulated annealing and genetic optimization). To run the quantum algorithms
we use the IBM Quantum\textsuperscript{TM} gate-based quantum computer. We also
employ the quantum annealer offered by D-Wave. We demonstrate portfolio
optimization on finding the optimal currency composition of the CNB's FX
reserves. A secondary goal of the paper is to provide staff of central banks
and other financial market regulators with literature on quantum optimization
algorithms, because financial firms are active in finding possible applications
of quantum computing.

Several benchmarks have been proposed to holistically measure quantum
computing performance. While some have focused on the end user's perspective
(e.g., in application-oriented benchmarks), the real industrial value taking
into account the physical footprint of the quantum processor are not discussed.
Different use-cases come with different requirements for size, weight, power
consumption, or data privacy while demanding to surpass certain thresholds of
fidelity, speed, problem size, or precision. This paper aims to incorporate
these characteristics into a concept coined quantum utility, which demonstrates
the effectiveness and practicality of quantum computers for various
applications where quantum advantage -- defined as either being faster, more
accurate, or demanding less energy -- is achieved over a classical machine of
similar size, weight, and cost. To successively pursue quantum utility, a
level-based classification scheme -- constituted as application readiness
levels (ARLs) -- as well as extended classification labels are introduced.
These are demonstratively applied to different quantum applications from the
fields of quantum chemistry, quantum simulation, quantum machine learning, and
data analysis followed by a brief discussion.

This article gives an overview and a perspective of recent theoretical
proposals and their experimental implementations in the field of quantum
machine learning. Without an aim to being exhaustive, the article reviews
specific high-impact topics such as quantum reinforcement learning, quantum
autoencoders, and quantum memristors, and their experimental realizations in
the platforms of quantum photonics and superconducting circuits. The field of
quantum machine learning could be among the first quantum technologies
producing results that are beneficial for industry and, in turn, to society.
Therefore, it is necessary to push forward initial quantum implementations of
this technology, in Noisy Intermediate-Scale Quantum Computers, aiming for
achieving fruitful calculations in machine learning that are better than with
any other current or future computing paradigm.

Investigating and verifying the connections between the foundations of
quantum mechanics and general relativity will require extremely sensitive
quantum experiments. To provide ultimate insight into this fascinating area of
physics, the realization of dedicated experiments in space will sooner or later
become a necessity. Quantum technologies, and among them quantum memories in
particular, are providing novel approaches to reach conclusive experimental
results due to their advanced state of development backed by decades of
progress. Storing quantum states for prolonged time will make it possible to
study Bell tests on astronomical baselines, to increase measurement precision
for investigations of gravitational effects on quantum systems, or enable
distributed networks of quantum sensors and clocks. We here promote the case of
exploiting quantum memories for fundamental physics in space, and discuss both
distinct experiments as well as potential quantum memory platforms and their
performance.

In this work, we present a protocol for comparing the performance of
arbitrary quantum processes executed on spatially or temporally disparate
quantum platforms using Local Operations and Classical Communication (LOCC).
The protocol involves sampling local unitary operators, which are then
communicated to each platform via classical communication to construct quantum
state preparation and measurement circuits. Subsequently, the local unitary
operators are implemented on each platform, resulting in the generation of
probability distributions of measurement outcomes. The max process fidelity is
estimated from the probability distributions, which ultimately quantifies the
relative performance of the quantum processes. Furthermore, we demonstrate that
this protocol can be adapted for quantum process tomography. We apply the
protocol to compare the performance of five quantum devices from IBM and the
"Qianshi" quantum computer from Baidu via the cloud. Remarkably, the
experimental results reveal that the protocol can accurately compare the
performance of the quantum processes implemented on different quantum
computers, requiring significantly fewer measurements than those needed for
full quantum process tomography. We view our work as a catalyst for
collaborative efforts in cross-platform comparison of quantum computers.

Today's quantum computers are primarily accessible through the cloud and
potentially shifting to the edge network in the future. With the rapid
advancement and proliferation of quantum computing research worldwide, there
has been a considerable increase in demand for using cloud-based quantum
computation resources. This demand has highlighted the need for designing
efficient and adaptable resource management strategies and service models for
quantum computing. However, the limited quantity, quality, and accessibility of
quantum resources pose significant challenges to practical research in quantum
software and systems. To address these challenges, we propose iQuantum, a
first-of-its-kind simulation toolkit that can model hybrid quantum-classical
computing environments for prototyping and evaluating system design and
scheduling algorithms. This paper presents the quantum computing system model,
architectural design, proof-of-concept implementation, potential use cases, and
future development of iQuantum. Our proposed iQuantum simulator is anticipated
to boost research in quantum software and systems, particularly in the creation
and evaluation of policies and algorithms for resource management, job
scheduling, and hybrid quantum-classical task orchestration in quantum
computing environments integrating edge and cloud resources.

Amidst the rapid advancements in experimental technology,
noise-intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ) devices have become increasingly
programmable, offering versatile opportunities to leverage quantum
computational advantage. Here we explore the intricate dynamics of programmable
NISQ devices for quantum reservoir computing. Using a genetic algorithm to
configure the quantum reservoir dynamics, we systematically enhance the
learning performance. Remarkably, a single configured quantum reservoir can
simultaneously learn multiple tasks, including a synthetic oscillatory network
of transcriptional regulators, chaotic motifs in gene regulatory networks, and
the fractional-order Chua's circuit. Our configured quantum reservoir computing
yields highly precise predictions for these learning tasks, outperforming
classical reservoir computing. We also test the configured quantum reservoir
computing in foreign exchange (FX) market applications and demonstrate its
capability to capture the stochastic evolution of the exchange rates with
significantly greater accuracy than classical reservoir computing approaches.
Through comparison with classical reservoir computing, we highlight the unique
role of quantum coherence in the quantum reservoir, which underpins its
exceptional learning performance. Our findings suggest the exciting potential
of configured quantum reservoir computing for exploiting the quantum
computation power of NISQ devices in developing artificial general
intelligence.

We present a method to split quantum circuits of variational quantum
algorithms (VQAs) to allow for parallel training and execution, that maximally
exploits the limited number of qubits in hardware to solve large problem
instances. We apply this specifically to combinatorial optimization problems,
where inherent structures from the problem can be identified, thus directly
informing how to create these parallelized quantum circuits, which we call
slices. We test our method by creating a parallelized version of the Quantum
Approximate Optimization Algorithm, which we call pQAOA, and explain how our
methods apply to other quantum algorithms like the Variational Quantum
Eigensolver and quantum annealing. We show that not only can our method address
larger problems, but that it is also possible to run full VQA models while
training parameters using only one slice. These results show that the loss of
information induced by splitting does not necessarily affect the training of
parameters in quantum circuits for optimization. This implies that
combinatorial optimization problems are encoded with redundant information in
quantum circuits of current VQAs. Therefore, to attain quantum advantage for
combinatorial optimization, future quantum algorithms should be designed to
incorporate information that is free of such redundancies.

In this work, we aim at augmenting the decisions output by quantum models
with "error bars" that provide finite-sample coverage guarantees. Quantum
models implement implicit probabilistic predictors that produce multiple random
decisions for each input through measurement shots. Randomness arises not only
from the inherent stochasticity of quantum measurements, but also from quantum
gate noise and quantum measurement noise caused by noisy hardware. Furthermore,
quantum noise may be correlated across shots and it may present drifts in time.
This paper proposes to leverage such randomness to define prediction sets for
both classification and regression that provably capture the uncertainty of the
model. The approach builds on probabilistic conformal prediction (PCP), while
accounting for the unique features of quantum models. Among the key technical
innovations, we introduce a new general class of non-conformity scores that
address the presence of quantum noise, including possible drifts. Experimental
results, using both simulators and current quantum computers, confirm the
theoretical calibration guarantees of the proposed framework.

We investigate the use of Quantum Neural Networks for discovering and
implementing quantum error-correcting codes. Our research showcases the
efficacy of Quantum Neural Networks through the successful implementation of
the Bit-Flip quantum error-correcting code using a Quantum Autoencoder,
effectively correcting bit-flip errors in arbitrary logical qubit states.
Additionally, we employ Quantum Neural Networks to restore states impacted by
Amplitude Damping by utilizing an approximative 4-qubit error-correcting
codeword. Our models required modification to the initially proposed Quantum
Neural Network structure to avoid barren plateaus of the cost function and
improve training time. Moreover, we propose a strategy that leverages Quantum
Neural Networks to discover new encryption protocols tailored for specific
quantum channels. This is exemplified by learning to generate logical qubits
explicitly for the bit-flip channel. Our modified Quantum Neural Networks
consistently outperformed the standard implementations across all tasks.

A quantum internet holds promise for achieving distributed quantum sensing
and large-scale quantum computer networks, as well as quantum communication
among arbitrary clients all over the globe. The main building block is
efficient distribution of entanglement, entangled bits (ebits), between clients
with fixed error, irrespective of their distance. In practice, this should be
accomplished across multiple quantum networks, analogously to what the current
Internet does in conventional communication. However, existing quantum repeater
schemes for efficient distribution of ebits over long distances work only on
linear networks. Besides, there was no prescription on how to choose such
linear networks from quantum networks with arbitrary topology. Here we present
a practical recipe on how to aggregate quantum networks with arbitrary topology
in order to give clients ebits with fixed error efficiently, regardless of
their distance. This recipe is based on combination of two new concepts of
minimum cost aggregation and network concatenation. Our recipe forms the basis
of designing a quantum internet protocol for networking self-organizing quantum
networks to make a global-scale quantum internet.

The no-quantum broadcasting theorem which is a weaker version of the
nocloning theorem restricts us from broadcasting completely unknown quantum
information to multiple users. However, if the sender is aware of the quantum
information (state) to be broadcasted then the above restriction disappears and
the task reduces to a multiparty remote state preparation. Without recognizing
this fact, several schemes for broadcasting of known quantum states have been
proposed in the recent past (e.g., Quantum Inf Process (2017) 16:41) and
erroneously/misleadingly referred to as protocols for quantum broadcasting.
Here we elaborate on the relation between the protocols of remote state
preparation and those of broadcasting of known quantum information and show
that it's possible to broadcast known quantum information to multiple receivers
in deterministic as well as probabilistic manner with optimal resources.
Further, the effect of noise on such schemes, and some new facets (like joint
broadcasting) of such schemes have been discussed. A proof of principle
realization of the proposed optimal scheme using IBM quantum computer is also
reported. Possibilities of generalizations of the so-called broadcasting
schemes and potential applications are also discussed with appropriate
importance.

Quantum technology has led to increasingly sophisticated and complex quantum
devices. Assessing their reliability (quantum reliability) is an important
issue. Although reliability theory for classical devices has been well
developed in industry and technology, a suitable metric on quantum reliability
and its loss has not been systematically investigated. Since reliability-loss
depends on the process, quantum fidelity does not always fully depict it. This
study provides a metric of quantum reliability by shifting the focus from
state-distinguishing to trajectory-distinguishing. In contrast to the
conventional notion of classical reliability, which is evaluated using
probabilistic measurements of binary logical variables, quantum reliability is
grounded in the quantum probability amplitude or wave function. This research
provides a universal framework for reliability theory encompassing both
classical and quantum devices. It offers a new perspective on quantum
engineering by elucidating how intensely the real quantum process a device
undergoes influences its performance.

Here we study the impact of non-Markovian evolution on prominent
characteristics of quantum thermodynamics, such as ergotropy and power. These
are benchmarked by the behavior of the quantum speed limit time. We make use of
both geometric-based, particularly quantum Fisher and Wigner-Yanase information
metric, and physical properties based-measures, particularly relative purity
measure and relative entropy of coherence measure, to compute the quantum speed
limit time. A simple non-Markovian model of a qubit in a bosonic bath
exhibiting non-Markovian amplitude damping evolution is considered, which, from
the quantum thermodynamic perspective with finite initial ergotropy, can be
envisaged as a quantum battery. To this end, we explore the connections between
the physical properties-based measures of quantum speed limit time and the
coherent component of ergotropy. The non-Markovian evolution is shown to impact
the recharging process of the quantum battery. Further, a connection between
the discharging-charging cycle of the quantum battery and the geometric
measures of quantum speed limit time is observed.

How fast a state of a system converges to a stationary state is one of the
fundamental questions in science. Some Markov chains and random walks on finite
groups are known to exhibit the non-asymptotic convergence to a stationary
distribution, called the cutoff phenomenon. Here, we examine how quickly a
random quantum circuit could transform a quantum state to a Haar-measure random
quantum state. We find that random quantum states, as stationary states of
random walks on a unitary group, are invariant under the quantum Fourier
transform. Thus the entropic uncertainty of random quantum states has balanced
Shannon entropies for the computational bases and the quantum Fourier transform
bases. By calculating the Shannon entropy for random quantum states and the
Wasserstein distances for the eigenvalues of random quantum circuits, we show
that the cutoff phenomenon occurs for the random quantum circuit. It is also
demonstrated that the Dyson-Brownian motion for the eigenvalues of a random
unitary matrix as a continuous random walk exhibits the cutoff phenomenon. The
results here imply that random quantum states could be generated with shallow
random circuits.

Quantum transducers convert quantum signals through hybrid interfaces of
physical platforms in quantum networks. Modeled as quantum communication
channels, performance of unidirectional quantum transduction can be measured by
the quantum channel capacity. However, characterizing performance of quantum
transducers used for duplex quantum transduction where signals are converted
bidirectionally remains an open question. Here, we propose rate regions to
characterize the performance of duplex quantum transduction. Using this tool,
we find that quantum transducers optimized for simultaneous duplex transduction
can outperform strategies based on the standard protocol of time-shared
unidirectional transduction. Integrated over the frequency domain, we
demonstrate that rate region can also characterize quantum transducers with
finite bandwidth.

What Quantum Brain Dynamics (QBD) considers is not just these other functions
of the brain, this is because they can be well analyzed with the workings of
classical mechanics (even though they still play host to a quantum
description). It rather considers two specific functions above all else
consciousness and memory. QBD falls in line umbrella-covers aspects of the
quantum brain analysis such as quantum-consciousness, quantum-mind and
quantum-brain. The inspiration that lurks behind the Quantum Interpretation of
the Brain (QIB), is traceable to the 1944 article written by E. Schrodinger,
What is Life, in which he presents how a living organisms evades decay to
equilibrium by the fact of negentropy, as such life which is in its ordered
macroscopic state is created (in an environment of disorder), which moves
against the second law of thermodynamics. The life that is created, that which
is sustained, arises from an interaction that the organism engages in with the
environment. This interaction is microscopic, albeit quantum, it is an
interaction that underscores the reality of quantum entanglement (which also
plays hosts to the superposition of quantum states). The quantum interpretation
of the brain is a nascent, yet burgeoning as it might be that necessary tool
required for a better articulation and comprehension of the brain.

With the ever-growing concern for internet security, the field of quantum
cryptography emerges as a promising solution for enhancing the security of
networking systems. In this paper, 20 notable papers from leading conferences
and journals are reviewed and categorized based on their focus on various
aspects of quantum cryptography, including key distribution, quantum bit
commitment, post quantum cryptography, and counterfactual quantum key
distribution. The paper explores the motivations and challenges of employing
quantum cryptography, addressing security and privacy concerns along with
existing solutions. Secure key distribution, a critical component in ensuring
the confidentiality and integrity of transmitted information over a network, is
emphasized in the discussion. The survey examines the potential of quantum
cryptography to enable secure key exchange between parties, even when faced
with eavesdropping, and other applications of quantum cryptography.
Additionally, the paper analyzes the methodologies, findings, and limitations
of each reviewed study, pinpointing trends such as the increasing focus on
practical implementation of quantum cryptography protocols and the growing
interest in postquantum cryptography research. Furthermore, the survey
identifies challenges and open research questions, including the need for more
efficient quantum repeater networks, improved security proofs for continuous
variable quantum key distribution, and the development of quantum resistant
cryptographic algorithms.

Metasurfaces have recently opened up applications in the quantum regime,
including quantum tomography and the generation of quantum entangled states.
With their capability to store a vast amount of information by utilizing the
various geometric degrees of freedom of nanostructures, metasurfaces are
expected to be useful for processing quantum information. In this study, we
propose and experimentally demonstrate a programmable metasurface capable of
performing quantum algorithms using both classical light and quantum light at
the single photon level. Our approach encodes multiple programmable quantum
algorithms, such as Grover's algorithm and the quantum Fourier transform, onto
the same metalens array on a metasurface. A spatial light modulator selectively
excites different sets of metalenses to carry out the quantum algorithms, while
the photon arrival data or interference patterns captured by a single photon
camera are used to extract information about the output state. Our programmable
quantum metasurface approach holds potential as a cost-effective means of
miniaturizing components for quantum computing and information processing.

The rapid development of quantum computing has led to increasing interest in
quantum algorithms for a variety of different applications. Quantum walks have
also experienced a surge in interest due to their potential use in quantum
algorithms. Using the qiskit software package, we test how accurately the
current generation of quantum computers provided by IBM can simulate a cycle
discrete-time quantum walk. Implementing an 8-node, 8-step walk and a simpler
4-node, 4-step discrete-time quantum walk on an IBM quantum device known as
ibmq_quito, the results for each step of the respective walks are presented. A
custom noise model is developed in order to estimate that noise levels in the
ibmq_santiago quantum device would need to be reduced by at least 94% in order
to execute a 16-node, 16-step cycle discrete-time quantum walk to a reasonable
level of fidelity.

Distributed quantum computing provides a viable approach towards scalable
quantum computation, which relies on nonlocal quantum gates to connect distant
quantum nodes, to overcome the limitation of a single device. However, such an
approach has only been realized within single nodes or between nodes separated
by a few tens of meters, preventing the target of harnessing computing
resources in large-scale quantum networks. Here, we demonstrate distributed
quantum computing between two nodes spatially separated by 7.0 km, using
stationary qubits based on multiplexed quantum memories, flying qubits at
telecom wavelengths, and active feedforward control based on field-deployed
fiber. Specifically, we illustrate quantum parallelism by implementing
Deutsch-Jozsa algorithm and quantum phase estimation algorithm between the two
remote nodes. These results represent the first demonstration of distributed
quantum computing over metropolitan-scale distances and lay the foundation for
the construction of large-scale quantum computing networks relying on existing
fiber channels.

We propose a method for constructing $\texttt{PREPARE}$ circuits for quantum
phase estimation of a molecular Hamiltonian in quantum chemistry by using
variational optimization of quantum circuits solely on classical computers. The
$\texttt{PREPARE}$ circuit generates a quantum state which encodes the
coefficients of the terms in the Hamiltonian as probability amplitudes and
plays a crucial role in the state-of-the-art efficient implementations of
quantum phase estimation. We employ the automatic quantum circuit encoding
algorithm [Shirakawa $\textit{et al.}$, arXiv:2112.14524] to construct
$\texttt{PREPARE}$ circuits, which requires classical simulations of quantum
circuits of $O(\log N)$ qubits with $N$ being the number of qubits of the
Hamiltonian. The generated $\texttt{PREPARE}$ circuits do not need any
ancillary qubit. We demonstrate our method by investigating the number of
$T$-gates of the obtained $\texttt{PREPARE}$ circuits for quantum chemistry
Hamiltonians of various molecules, which shows a constant-factor reduction
compared to previous approaches that do not use ancillary qubits. Since the
number of available logical qubits and $T$ gates will be limited at the early
stage of the fault-tolerant quantum computing, the proposed method is
particularly of use for performing the quantum phase estimation with such
limited capability.

In this paper, we explore the historical development of playable quantum
physics related games (\textit{\textbf{quantum games}}). For the purpose of
this examination, we have collected over 260 quantum games ranging from
commercial games, applied and serious games, and games that have been developed
at quantum themed game jams and educational courses. We provide an overview of
the journey of quantum games across three dimensions: \textit{the perceivable
dimension of quantum physics, the dimension of scientific purposes, and the
dimension of quantum technologies}. We then further reflect on the definition
of quantum games and its implications. While motivations behind developing
quantum games have typically been educational or academic, themes related to
quantum physics have begun to be more broadly utilised across a range of
commercial games. In addition, as the availability of quantum computer hardware
has grown, entirely new variants of quantum games have emerged to take
advantage of these machines' inherent capabilities, \textit{quantum computer
games}

Quantum computers promise exponential speed ups over classical computers for
various tasks. This emerging technology is expected to have its first huge
impact in High Performance Computing (HPC), as it can solve problems beyond the
reach of HPC. To that end, HPC will require quantum accelerators, which will
enable applications to run on both classical and quantum devices, via hybrid
quantum-classical nodes. Hybrid quantum-HPC applications should be scalable,
executable on Quantum Error Corrected (QEC) devices, and could use
quantum-classical primitives. However, the lack of scalability, poor
performances, and inability to insert classical schemes within quantum
applications has prevented current quantum frameworks from being adopted by the
HPC community.
  This paper specifies the requirements of a hybrid quantum-classical framework
compatible with HPC environments, and introduces a novel hardware-agnostic
framework called Q-Pragma. This framework extends the classical programming
language C++ heavily used in HPC via the addition of pragma directives to
manage quantum computations.

Integrated quantum photonic circuit is a promising platform for the
realization of quantum information processing in the future. To achieve the
largescale quantum photonic circuits, the applied quantum logic gates should be
as small as possible for the high-density integration on chips. Here, we report
the implementation of super-compact universal quantum logic gates on silicon
chips by the method of inverse design. In particular, the fabricated
controlled-NOT gate and Hadamard gate are both nearly a vacuum wavelength,
being the smallest optical quantum gates reported up to now. We further design
the quantum circuit by cascading these fundamental gates to perform arbitrary
quantum processing, where the corresponding size is about several orders
smaller than that of previous quantum photonic circuits. Our study paves the
way for the realization of largescale quantum photonic chips with integrated
sources, and can possess important applications in the field of quantum
information processes.

The weak measurement (WM) and quantum measurement reversal (QMR) are crucial
in protecting the collapse of quantum states. The idea of WM and QMR has
recently been used to protect and enhance quantum correlations and universal
quantum teleportation (UQT) protocols. Here, we study the quantum correlations,
maximal fidelity, and fidelity deviation of the two-qubit negative quantum
states developed using discrete Wigner functions with(without) WM and QMR. To
take into account the effect of a noisy environment, we evolve the states via
non-Markovian amplitude damping and random telegraph noise quantum channels. To
benchmark the performance of negative quantum states, we calculate their
success probability. We compare our results with the two-qubit maximally
entangled Bell state. Interestingly, we observe that some negative quantum
states perform better with WM and QMR than the Bell state for different cases
under evolution via noisy quantum channels.

Kirkwood-Dirac (KD) quasiprobability is a quantum analog of phase space
probability of classical statistical mechanics, allowing negative or/and
nonreal values. It gives an informationally complete representation of a
quantum state. Recent works have revealed the important roles played by the KD
quasiprobability in the broad fields of quantum science and quantum technology.
In the present work, we use the KD quasiprobability to access the quantum
coherence in a quantum state. We show that the $l_1$-norm of the imaginary part
of the KD quasiprobability over an incoherent reference basis and a second
basis, maximized over all possible choices of the latter, can be used to
quantify quantum coherence, satisfying certain desirable properties. It is
upper bounded by the quantum uncertainty, i.e., the quantum standard deviation,
of the incoherent basis in the state. It gives a lower bound to the $l_1$-norm
quantum coherence, and for a single qubit, they are identical. We discuss the
measurement of the KD coherence based on the measurement of the KD
quasiprobability and an optimization procedure in hybrid quantum-classical
schemes, and suggest statistical interpretations. We also discuss its relevance
in the physics of linear response regime.

One of the first problems of studying the quantum internet is how to realize
quantum interconnection between users in a quantum network. To address above
problem, by referencing the classical Internet, developing the packet switching
of quantum networks is a promising way. In this paper, we propose a new hybrid
packet switching for entanglement-based quantum networks assisted by classical
frame. Different from the previous packet switching for quantum networks based
on single photon, the frame used in our scheme is pure classical rather than
the classical-quantum structure, and the transmission of classical and quantum
signals over physical channels can be independent, which makes our scheme is
also valid for quantum networks with heralded entanglement generation. Using
our hybrid packet switching, the process of building entanglement channel
between end nodes is analogous to the classical packet-switched networks, which
provides an effective way to build large-scale packet-switched
entanglement-based quantum internet. To verify the feasibility, we perform
end-to-end entanglement distribution using our hybrid packet switching in a
quantum network and simulate the fidelities of distributed state with respect
to the number of hops.

As quantum processors advance, the emergence of large-scale decentralized
systems involving interacting quantum-enabled agents is on the horizon. Recent
research efforts have explored quantum versions of Nash and correlated
equilibria as solution concepts of strategic quantum interactions, but these
approaches did not directly connect to decentralized adaptive setups where
agents possess limited information. This paper delves into the dynamics of
quantum-enabled agents within decentralized systems that employ no-regret
algorithms to update their behaviors over time. Specifically, we investigate
two-player quantum zero-sum games and polymatrix quantum zero-sum games,
showing that no-regret algorithms converge to separable quantum Nash equilibria
in time-average. In the case of general multi-player quantum games, our work
leads to a novel solution concept, (separable) quantum coarse correlated
equilibria (QCCE), as the convergent outcome of the time-averaged behavior
no-regret algorithms, offering a natural solution concept for decentralized
quantum systems. Finally, we show that computing QCCEs can be formulated as a
semidefinite program and establish the existence of entangled (i.e.,
non-separable) QCCEs, which cannot be approached via the current paradigm of
no-regret learning.

Herein, we propose a novel strategy for implementing a direct readout of the
symmetric characteristic function of the quantum states of quantum fields
without the involvement of idealized measurements, an aspect that has always
been deemed ill-defined in quantum field theory. This proposed scheme relies on
the quantum control and measurements of an auxiliary qubit locally coupled to
the quantum fields. By mapping the expectation values of both the real and
imaginary parts of the field displacement operator to the qubit states, the
qubit's readout provides complete information regarding the symmetric
characteristic function. We characterize our technique by applying it to the
Kubo-Martin-Schwinger (thermal) and squeezed states of a quantum scalar field.
In addition, we have discussed general applications of this approach to
analogue-gravity systems, such as Bose-Einstein condensates, within the scope
of state-of-the-art experimental capabilities. This proposed strategy may serve
as an essential in understanding and optimizing the control of quantum fields
for relativistic quantum information applications, particularly in exploring
the interplay between gravity and quantum, for example, the relation to
locality, causality, and information.

Quantum broadcasting is a cornerstone in the realm of quantum information
processing and characterizes the correlations within quantum states.
Nonetheless, traditional quantum broadcasting encounters inherent limitations
dictated by the principles of quantum mechanics. In this work, we introduce a
novel protocol known as \textit{virtual quantum broadcasting} which focuses on
broadcasting measurement statistics of a target state rather than the state
itself. First, we propose a universal unilocal protocol enabling multiple
parties to share the expectation value for any observable in any target
bipartite state. Second, we formalize the simulation cost of a virtual quantum
broadcasting protocol into a semidefinite programming problem. Notably, we
propose a specific protocol with optimal simulation cost for the 2-broadcasting
scenario, revealing an explicit relationship between simulation cost and the
quantum system's dimension. Moreover, we establish upper and lower bounds on
the simulation cost of the virtual $n$-broadcasting protocol and demonstrate
the convergence of the lower bound to the upper bound as the quantum system's
dimension increases. Our work paves the way for new approaches to distributing
quantum information, potentially advancing quantum communication and computing
technologies.

Interference, which refers to the phenomenon associated with the
superposition of waves, has played a crucial role in the advancement of physics
and finds a wide range of applications in physical and engineering
measurements. Interferometers are experimental setups designed to observe and
manipulate interference. With the development of technology, many quantum
interferometers have been discovered and have become cornerstone tools in the
field of quantum physics. Quantum interferometers not only explore the nature
of the quantum world but also have extensive applications in quantum
information technology, such as quantum communication, quantum computing, and
quantum measurement. In this review, we analyze and summarize three typical
quantum interferometers: the Hong-Ou-Mandel (HOM) interferometer, the N00N
state interferometer, and the Franson interferometer. We focus on the
principles and applications of these three interferometers. In the principles
section, we present the theoretical models for these interferometers, including
single-mode theory and multi-mode theory. In the applications section, we
review the applications of these interferometers in quantum communication,
computation, and measurement. We hope that this review article will promote the
development of quantum interference in both fundamental science and practical
engineering applications.

Time in relativity theory has a status different from that adopted by
standard quantum mechanics, where time is considered as a parameter measured
with reference to an external absolute Newtonian frame. This status strongly
restricts its role in the dynamics of systems and hinders any formulation to
merge quantum mechanics with general relativity, specifically when considering
quantum gravity. To overcome those limitations, several authors tried to
construct an operator which is conjugate to the Hamiltonian of quantum systems
implementing some essential features of the relativistic time. These
formulations use the concept of internal or intrinsic time instead of the
universal coordinate time used in textbooks. Furthermore, recently it is
remarked that the consideration of time with relativistic features could
enhance the analysis techniques in quantum information processing and have an
impact on its status in causal orders and causal structures of quantum
information. The role of clocks, their accuracy and stability has become an
important issue in quantum information processing. This article present a
substantiative review of recent works which reflect the possibility of
utilizing quantum time, measured by quantum clock devised according to
Page-Wootters scheme, to stand as a resource for quantum information
processing.

In this paper, we study the synchronization of dissipative quantum harmonic
oscillators in the framework of quantum open system via the Active-Passive
Decomposition (APD) configuration. We show that two or more quantum systems may
be synchronized when the quantum systems of interest are embedded in
dissipative environments and influenced by a common classical system. Such a
classical system is typically termed as a controller, which (1) can drive
quantum systems to cross different regimes (e.g., from periodic to chaotic
motions) and (2) constructs the so-called Active-Passive Decomposition
configuration such that all the quantum objects under consideration may be
synchronized. The main findings of this paper is that we demonstrate that the
complete synchronizations measured by the standard quantum deviation may be
achieved for both stable regimes (quantum limit circles) and unstable regimes
(quantum chaotic motions). As an example, we numerically show in an
optomechanical setup that the complete synchronization can be realized in
quantum mechanical resonators.

As a new research area, quantum software testing lacks systematic testing
benchmarks to assess testing techniques' effectiveness. Recently, some
open-source benchmarks and mutation analysis tools have emerged. However, there
is insufficient evidence on how various quantum circuit characteristics (e.g.,
circuit depth, number of quantum gates), algorithms (e.g., Quantum Approximate
Optimization Algorithm), and mutation characteristics (e.g., mutation
operators) affect the most mutant detection in quantum circuits. Studying such
relations is important to systematically design faulty benchmarks with varied
attributes (e.g., the difficulty in detecting a seeded fault) to facilitate
assessing the cost-effectiveness of quantum software testing techniques
efficiently. To this end, we present a large-scale empirical evaluation with
more than 700K faulty benchmarks (quantum circuits) generated by mutating 382
real-world quantum circuits. Based on the results, we provide valuable insights
for researchers to define systematic quantum mutation analysis techniques. We
also provide a tool to recommend mutants to users based on chosen
characteristics (e.g., a quantum algorithm type) and the required difficulty of
killing mutants. Finally, we also provide faulty benchmarks that can already be
used to assess the cost-effectiveness of quantum software testing techniques.

The speed limit provides an upper bound for the dynamical evolution time of a
quantum system. Here, we introduce the notion of quantum acceleration limit for
unitary time evolution of quantum systems under time-dependent Hamiltonian. We
prove that the quantum acceleration is upper bounded by the fluctuation in the
derivative of the Hamiltonian. This leads to a universal quantum acceleration
limit (QAL) which answers the question: What is the minimum time required for a
quantum system to be accelerated from arbitrary initial state to final state?
We illustrate the quantum acceleration limit for a two-level quantum system and
show that the bound is indeed tight. This notion can have important
applications in adiabatic quantum computing, quantum control and quantum
thermodynamics.

Simulating open quantum systems is crucial for exploring novel quantum
phenomena and assessing noisy quantum circuits. In this Letter, we study the
problem of whether mixed quantum states generated from noisy quantum circuits
can be efficiently represented by locally purified density operators (LPDOs).
We introduce a mapping from LPDOs of $N$ qubits to projected entangled-pair
states of size $2\times N$, which offers a unified method for managing virtual
and inner bonds. We numerically validate this framework by simulating noisy
random quantum circuits with up to depth $d=40$, using fidelity and
entanglement entropy as accuracy measures. Our simulations reveal two distinct
regions: a quantum region with weak noise that generates quantum entanglement
and a classical region with strong noise that leads to a maximally mixed state.
LPDO representation works well in both regions, but faces a significant
challenge at the quantum-classical transition point. This work advances our
understanding of efficient mixed-state representation in open quantum systems,
and provides insights into the entanglement structure of noisy quantum
circuits.

We report the quantum computing of reacting flows by simulating the
Hamiltonian dynamics. The scalar transport equation for reacting flows is
transformed into a Hamiltonian system, mapping the dissipative and
non-Hermitian problem in physical space to a Hermitian one in a
higher-dimensional space. Using this approach, we develop the quantum spectral
and finite difference methods for simulating reacting flows in periodic and
general conditions, respectively. The present quantum computing algorithms
offer a ``one-shot'' solution for a given time without temporal discretization,
avoiding iterative quantum state preparation and measurement. We compare
computational complexities of the quantum and classical algorithms. The quantum
spectral method exhibits exponential acceleration relative to its classical
counterpart, and the quantum finite difference method can achieve exponential
speedup in high-dimensional problems. The quantum algorithms are validated on
quantum computing simulators with the Qiskit package. The validation cases
cover one- and two-dimensional reacting flows with a linear source term and
periodic or inlet-outlet boundary conditions. The results obtained from the
quantum spectral and finite difference methods agree with analytical and
classical simulation results. They accurately capture the convection,
diffusion, and reaction processes. This demonstrates the potential of quantum
computing as an efficient tool for the simulation of reactive flows in
combustion.

We propose a quantum game based on coin-based quantum walks. Given a quantum
walk and a Hermitian operator on the coin-position composite space, winning
this game involves choosing an initial coin state such that the given quantum
walk leads to a composite state in which the expectation value of the given
Hermitian operator is greater than a certain value. Parrondo's paradox is a
phenomenon where a combination of losing strategies becomes a winning strategy.
We give a deterministic scheme for identifying Parrondo's paradox in our game,
in the sense that, given a collection of distinct quantum steps, we identify
initial coin states which happen to be losing states for all quantum walks
comprising solely of these steps individually, but turn out to be winning
states for a quantum walk comprising of all the given steps taken in a
sequence. Unlike traditional quantum steps that allow for equal magnitude
forward and backward strides based on the outcome of the coin-toss, the steps
of the quantum walks employed here, though still contingent upon coin-toss,
permit the strides to be of unequal magnitude, and not necessarily in opposite
directions. We believe the results presented here will contribute to a deeper
understanding of evolution of expectation values of observables in quantum
walks, and facilitate the development of novel quantum algorithms.

We calculate the derivations and the first Hochschild cohomology group of the
quantum grassmannian over a field of characteristic zero in the generic case
when the deformation parameter is not a root of unity. Using graded techniques
and two special homogeneous normal elements of the quantum grassmannian, we
reduce the problem to computing derivations of the quantum grassmannian that
act trivially on these two normal elements. We then use the dehomogenisation
equality which shows that a localisation of the quantum grassmannian is equal
to a skew Laurent extension of quantum matrices. This equality is used to
connect derivations of the quantum grassmannian with those of quantum matrices.
More precisely, again using graded techniques, we show that derivations of the
quantum grassmannian that act trivially on our two normal elements restrict to
homogeneous derivations of quantum matrices. The derivations of quantum
matrices are known in the square case and technical details needed to deal with
the general case are given in an appendix. This allows us to explicitly
describe the first Hochschild cohomology group of the quantum grassmannian.

In recent quantum algorithmic developments, a feedback-based approach has
shown promise for preparing quantum many-body system ground states and solving
combinatorial optimization problems. This method utilizes quantum Lyapunov
control to iteratively construct quantum circuits. Here, we propose a
substantial enhancement by integrating quantum Lyapunov control with the
counterdiabatic driving protocol, a key concept from quantum adiabaticity. Our
approach introduces an additional control field inspired by counterdiabatic
driving. We apply our algorithm to prepare ground states in one-dimensional
quantum Ising spin chains. Comprehensive simulations demonstrate a remarkable
acceleration in population transfer to low-energy states within a significantly
reduced time frame compared to conventional feedback-based quantum algorithms.
This acceleration translates to a reduced quantum circuit depth, a critical
metric for potential quantum computer implementation. We validate our algorithm
on the IBM cloud computer, highlighting its efficacy in expediting quantum
computations for many-body systems and combinatorial optimization problems.

Quantum measurement has conventionally been regarded as the final step in
quantum information processing, which is essential for reading out the
processed information but collapses the quantum state into a classical state.
However, recent studies have shown that quantum measurement itself can induce
novel quantum phenomena. One seminal example is a monitored random circuit,
which can generate long-range entanglement faster than a random unitary
circuit. Inspired by these results, in this paper, we address the following
question: When quantum information is encoded in a quantum error-correcting
code, how many physical qubits should be randomly measured to destroy the
encoded information? We investigate this question for various quantum
error-correcting codes and derive the necessary and sufficient conditions for
destroying the information through measurements. In particular, we demonstrate
that for a large class of quantum error-correcitng codes, it is impossible to
destroy the encoded information through random single-qubit Pauli measurements
when a tiny portion of physical qubits is still unmeasured. Our results not
only reveal the extraordinary robustness of quantum codes under measurement
decoherence, but also suggest potential applications in quantum information
processing tasks.

Although variational quantum algorithms based on parameterized quantum
circuits promise to achieve quantum advantages, in the noisy intermediate-scale
quantum (NISQ) era, their capabilities are greatly constrained due to limited
number of qubits and depth of quantum circuits. Therefore, we may view these
variational quantum algorithms as weak learners in supervised learning.
Ensemble methods are a general technique in machine learning for combining weak
learners to construct a more accurate one. In this paper, we theoretically
prove and numerically verify a learning guarantee for variational quantum
adaptive boosting (AdaBoost). To be specific, we theoretically depict how the
prediction error of variational quantum AdaBoost on binary classification
decreases with the increase of the number of boosting rounds and sample size.
By employing quantum convolutional neural networks, we further demonstrate that
variational quantum AdaBoost can not only achieve much higher accuracy in
prediction, but also help mitigate the impact of noise. Our work indicates that
in the current NISQ era, introducing appropriate ensemble methods is
particularly valuable in improving the performance of quantum machine learning
algorithms.

Barycentric and pairwise quantum Renyi leakages are proposed as two measures
of information leakage for privacy and security analysis in quantum computing
and communication systems. These quantities both require minimal assumptions on
the eavesdropper, i.e., they do not make any assumptions on the eavesdropper's
attack strategy or the statistical prior on the secret or private classical
data encoded in the quantum system. They also satisfy important properties of
positivity, independence, post-processing inequality, and unitary invariance.
The barycentric quantum Renyi leakage can be computed by solving a
semi-definite program and the pairwise quantum Renyi leakage possesses an
explicit formula. The barycentric and pairwise quantum Renyi leakages form
upper bounds on the maximal quantum leakage, the sandwiched quantum
$\alpha$-mutual information, the accessible information, and the Holevo's
information. Furthermore, differentially-private quantum channels are shown to
bound these measures of information leakage. Global and local depolarizing
channels, that are common models of noise in quantum computing and
communication, restrict private or secure information leakage. Finally, a
privacy-utility trade-off formula in quantum machine learning using variational
circuits is developed. The privacy guarantees can only be strengthened, i.e.,
information leakage can only be reduced, if the performance degradation grows
larger and vice versa.

While the majority of focus in quantum computing has so far been on
monolithic quantum systems, quantum communication networks and the quantum
internet in particular are increasingly receiving attention from researchers
and industry alike. The quantum internet may allow a plethora of applications
such as distributed or blind quantum computing, though research still is at an
early stage, both for its physical implementation as well as algorithms; thus
suitable applications are an open research question. We evaluate a potential
application for the quantum internet, namely quantum federated learning. We run
experiments under different settings in various scenarios (e.g. network
constraints) using several datasets from different domains and show that (1)
quantum federated learning is a valid alternative for regular training and (2)
network topology and nature of training are crucial considerations as they may
drastically influence the models performance. The results indicate that more
comprehensive research is required to optimally deploy quantum federated
learning on a potential quantum internet.

Hybrid Quantum-Classical Machine Learning (ML) is an emerging field,
amalgamating the strengths of both classical neural networks and quantum
variational circuits on the current noisy intermediate-scale quantum devices.
This paper performs an extensive comparative analysis between different hybrid
quantum-classical machine learning algorithms, namely Quantum Convolution
Neural Network, Quanvolutional Neural Network and Quantum ResNet, for image
classification. The experiments designed in this paper focus on different
Quantum ML (QML) algorithms to better understand the accuracy variation across
the different quantum architectures by implementing interchangeable quantum
circuit layers, varying the repetition of such layers and their efficient
placement. Such variations enable us to compare the accuracy across different
architectural permutations of a given hybrid QML algorithm. The performance
comparison of the hybrid models, based on the accuracy, provides us with an
understanding of hybrid quantum-classical convergence in correlation with the
quantum layer count and the qubit count variations in the circuit.

The Nobel Prizes in Physics (2022) and Chemistry (2023) heralded the
recognition of quantum information science and the synthesis of quantum dots,
respectively. This acknowledgment has propelled colloidal quantum dots and
perovskite nanocrystals to the forefront of quantum technologies. Their
distinct emission properties, facilitating the efficient generation of both
single photons and photon pairs, render them particularly captivating.
Moreover, their adaptability to diverse structures, ranging from traditional
electronics to nanopatterned frameworks, underscores their pivotal role in
shaping quantum technologies. Despite notable strides in synthesis, certain
properties require refinement for enhanced applicability in quantum
information, encompassing emission brightness, stability, single photon
indistinguishability, and entanglement fidelity of photon pairs. Here we offer
an overview of recent achievements in plasmon-exciton quantum emitters based on
luminescent semiconductor nanocrystals. Emphasizing the utilization of the
light-matter coupling phenomenon, we explore how this interaction enables the
manipulation of quantum properties without altering the chemical structure of
the emitters. This approach addresses critical aspects for quantum information
applications, offering precise control over emission rate, intensity, and
energy. The development of these hybrid systems represents a significant stride
forward, demonstrating their potential to overcome existing challenges and
advance the integration of quantum emitters into cutting-edge quantum
technology applications.

The work explores the integration of quantum computing into logistics and
supply chain management, emphasising its potential for use in complex
optimisation problems. The discussion introduces quantum computing principles,
focusing on quantum annealing and gate-based quantum computing, with the
Quantum Approximate Optimisation Algorithm and Quantum Annealing as key
algorithmic approaches. The paper provides an overview of quantum approaches to
routing, logistic network design, fleet maintenance, cargo loading, prediction,
and scheduling problems. Notably, most solutions in the literature are hybrid,
combining quantum and classical computing. The conclusion highlights the early
stage of quantum computing, emphasising its potential impact on logistics and
supply chain optimisation. In the final overview, the literature is
categorised, identifying quantum annealing dominance and a need for more
research in prediction and machine learning is highlighted. The consensus is
that quantum computing has great potential but faces current hardware
limitations, necessitating further advancements for practical implementation.

Demonstrations of quantum advantage for certain sampling problems has
generated considerable excitement for quantum computing and has further spurred
the development of circuit-model quantum computers, which represent quantum
programs as a sequence of quantum gates acting on a finite number of qubits.
Amongst this excitement, analog quantum computation has become less prominent,
with the expectation that circuit-model quantum computers will eventually be
sufficient for emulating analog quantum computation and thus rendering analog
quantum computation obsolete. In this work we explore the basic requirements
for emulating a specific analog quantum computation in the circuit model: the
preparation of a biased superposition of degenerate ground states of an Ising
Hamiltonian using an adiabatic evolution. We show that the overhead of
emulation is substantial even for this simple problem. This supports using
analog quantum computation for solving time-dependent Hamiltonian dynamics in
the short and mid-term, assuming analog errors can be made low enough and
coherence times long enough to solve problems of practical interest.

Strong correlations in matter promote a landscape of ground states and
associated quantum critical points. For metallic systems, there is increasing
recognition that the quantum criticality goes beyond the standard Landau
framework and, thus, novel means are needed to characterize the quantum
critical fluid. Here we do so by studying the entanglement properties near a
quantum critical point of a strongly correlated metal. We calculate the quantum
Fisher information of an Anderson/Kondo lattice model across its Kondo
destruction quantum critical point. The quantum Fisher information of the spin
degree of freedom peaks at the quantum critical point and indicates a strongly
entangled ground state. Our results are supported by the quantum Fisher
information extracted from inelastic neutron scattering measurements in quantum
critical heavy fermion metals. Our work opens a new avenue to advance the
understanding of metallic quantum criticality in a broad range of strongly
correlated systems, and points to a new regime of quantum matter to realize
amplified entanglement.

In a conventional circuit for quantum machine learning, the quantum gates
used to encode the input parameters and the variational parameters are
constructed with a fixed order. The resulting output function, which can be
expressed in the form of a restricted Fourier series, has limited flexibility
in the distributions of its Fourier coefficients. This indicates that a fixed
order of quantum gates can limit the performance of quantum machine learning.
Building on this key insight (also elaborated with examples), we introduce
indefinite causal order to quantum machine learning. Because the indefinite
causal order of quantum gates allows for the superposition of different orders,
the performance of quantum machine learning can be significantly enhanced.
Considering that the current accessible quantum platforms only allow to
simulate a learning structure with a fixed order of quantum gates, we reform
the existing simulation protocol to implement indefinite causal order and
further demonstrate the positive impact of indefinite causal order on specific
learning tasks. Our results offer useful insights into possible quantum effects
in quantum machine learning.

Quantum comb is an essential tool for characterizing complex quantum
protocols in quantum information processing. In this work, we introduce PQComb,
a framework leveraging parameterized quantum circuits to explore the
capabilities of quantum combs for general quantum process transformation tasks
and beyond. By optimizing PQComb for time-reversal simulations of unknown
unitary evolutions, we develop a simpler protocol for unknown qubit unitary
inversion that reduces the ancilla qubit overhead from 6 to 3 compared to the
existing method in [Yoshida, Soeda, Murao, PRL 131, 120602, 2023]. This
demonstrates the utility of quantum comb structures and showcases PQComb's
potential for solving complex quantum tasks. Our results pave the way for
broader PQComb applications in quantum computing and quantum information,
emphasizing its versatility for tackling diverse problems in quantum machine
learning.

The concepts of topology and geometry are of critical importance in exploring
exotic phases of quantum matter. Though they have been investigated on various
experimental platforms, to date a direct probe of topological and geometric
properties on a universal quantum computer even for a minimum model is still in
vain. In this work, we first show that a density matrix form of the quantum
geometric tensor (QGT) can be explicitly re-constructed from Pauli operator
measurements on a quantum circuit. We then propose two algorithms, suitable for
IBM quantum computers, to directly probe QGT. The first algorithm is a
variational quantum algorithm particularly suitable for Noisy
Intermediate-Scale Quantum (NISQ)-era devices, whereas the second one is a pure
quantum algorithm based on quantum imaginary time evolution. Explicit results
obtained from IBM Q simulating a Chern insulator model are presented and
analysed. Our results indicate that transmon qubit-based universal quantum
computers have the potential to directly simulate and investigate topological
and geometric properties of a quantum system.

Feature selection plays an essential role in improving the predictive
performance and interpretability of trained models in classical machine
learning. On the other hand, the usability of conventional feature selection
could be limited for quantum machine learning tasks; the technique might not
provide a clear interpretation on embedding quantum circuits for classical data
tasks and, more importantly, is not applicable to quantum data tasks. In this
work, we propose a feature selection method with a specific focus on quantum
machine learning. Our scheme treats the light-cones (i.e., subspace) of quantum
models as features and then select relevant ones through training of the
corresponding local quantum kernels. We numerically demonstrate its versatility
for four different applications using toy tasks: (1) feature selection of
classical inputs, (2) circuit architecture search for data embedding, (3)
compression of quantum machine learning models and (4) subspace selection for
quantum data. The proposed framework paves the way towards applications of
quantum machine learning to practical tasks. Also, this technique could be used
to practically test if the quantum machine learning tasks really need
quantumness, while it is beyond the scope of this work.

Electron spins in silicon quantum dot platform provide great potential for
quantum information processing due to excellent physical properties and modern
fabrication technologies. Spin-based quantum bit (qubit) operations are
intensively studied to realize universal logic gates with a high fidelity, fast
gating operations, and basic programmability. Although recent experimental
achievements can be considered as remarkable results for utilizing quantum
computation, more advanced quantum information protocols should be demonstrated
with a large number of qubit system to enable programmability of silicon
devices. Here, we computationally explore entanglement-based quantum
information protocols in electrically defined five silicon quantum dot system.
To this end, device simulations are employed to demonstrate $1$-qubit gate and
$2$-qubit gate operations. Additionally, we discuss the implementations of
three applications: the generation of magic states, entanglement swapping, and
quantum teleportation in our silicon device. All the results will secure the
scalability of quantum information processing with electron spin qubits in
silicon quantum dot system.

In recent years, significant progress has been made in utilizing the
divergence of spectrum response rate at the exceptional point (EP) for sensing
in classical systems, while the use and characterization of quantum EPs for
sensing have been largely unexplored. For a quantum EP sensor, an important
issue is the relation between the order of the quantum EP and the scaling of
quantum Fisher information (QFI), an essential quantity for characterizing
quantum sensors. Here we investigate multi-mode quadratic bosonic systems,
which exhibit higher-order EP dynamics, but possess Hermitian Hamiltonians
without Langevin noise, thus can be utilized for quantum sensing. We derive an
exact analytic formula for the QFI, from which we establish a scaling relation
between the QFI and the order of the EP. We apply the formula to study a
three-mode EP sensor and a multi-mode bosonic Kitaev chain and show that the EP
physics can significantly enhance the sensing sensitivity. Our work establishes
the connection between two important fields: non-Hermitian EP dynamics and
quantum sensing, and may find important applications in quantum information and
quantum non-Hermitian physics.

Driven by the significant advantages offered by quantum computing, research
in quantum machine learning has increased in recent years. While quantum
speed-up has been demonstrated in some applications of quantum machine
learning, a comprehensive understanding of its underlying mechanisms for
improved performance remains elusive. Our study fills this gap by examining the
expressibility of quantum circuits integrated within a convolutional neural
network (CNN). Through numerical training on the MNIST dataset, our hybrid
quantum-classical CNN model exhibited superior feature selection capabilities
and significantly reduced the required training steps compared to the classical
CNN. To understand the root of this enhanced performance, we conducted an
analytical investigation of the functional expressibility of quantum circuits
and derived a quantum activation function. We demonstrated that this quantum
activation is more efficient in selecting important features and discarding
unimportant information of input images. These findings not only deepen our
comprehension of quantum-enhanced machine-learning models but also advance the
classical machine-learning technique by introducing the quantum-inspired
activation function.

Quantum communication and quantum metrology are widely compelling
applications in the field of quantum information science, and quantum remote
sensing is an intersection of both. Despite their differences, there are
notable commonalities between quantum communication and quantum remote sensing,
as they achieve their functionalities through the transmission of quantum
states. Here we propose a novel quantum integrated sensing and communication
(QISAC) protocol, which achieves quantum sensing under the Heisenberg limit
while simultaneously enabling quantum secure communication through the
transmission of entanglements. We have theoretically proven its security
against eavesdroppers. The security of QISAC is characterized by the secrecy
capacity for information bit as well as asymmetric Fisher information gain for
sensing. Through simulations conducted under the constraints of limited
entanglement resources, we illustrate that QISAC maintains high accuracy in the
estimation of phase. Hence our QISAC offers a fresh perspective for the
applications of future quantum networks.

The question of the energetic efficiency of quantum computers has gained some
attention only recently. A precise understanding of the resources required to
operate a quantum computer with a targeted computational performance and how
the energy requirements can impact the scalability is still missing. In this
work, one implementation of the quantum Fourier transform (QFT) algorithm in a
trapped ion setup was studied. The main focus was to obtain a theoretical
characterization of the energetic costs of quantum computation. The energetic
cost of the experiment was estimated by analyzing the components of the setup
and the steps involved in a quantum computation, from the cooling and
preparation of the ions to the implementation of the algorithm and readout of
the result. A potential scaling of the energetic costs was argued and used to
find a possible threshold for an energetic quantum advantage against
state-of-the-art classical supercomputers.

The discrimination of quantum operations has long been an intriguing
challenge, with theoretical research significantly advancing our understanding
of the quantum features in discriminating quantum objects. This challenge is
closely related to the discrimination of quantum states, and proof-of-principle
demonstrations of the latter have already been realized using optical photons.
However, the experimental demonstration of discriminating general quantum
operations, including both unitary and non-unitary operations, has remained
elusive. In general quantum systems, especially those with high dimensions, the
preparation of arbitrary quantum states and the implementation of arbitrary
quantum operations and generalized measurements are non-trivial tasks. Here,
for the first time, we experimentally demonstrate the optimal unambiguous
discrimination of up to 6 displacement operators and the unambiguous
discrimination of non-unitary quantum operations. Our results demonstrate
powerful tools for experimental research in quantum information processing and
are expected to stimulate a wide range of valuable applications in the field of
quantum sensing.

The geometric properties of quantum states is fully encoded by the quantum
geometric tensor. The real and imaginary parts of the quantum geometric tensor
are the quantum metric and Berry curvature, which characterize the distance and
phase difference between two nearby quantum states in Hilbert space,
respectively. For conventional Hermitian quantum systems, the quantum metric
corresponds to the fidelity susceptibility and has already been used to specify
quantum phase transitions from the geometric perspective. In this work, we
extend this wisdom to the non-Hermitian systems for revealing non-Hermitian
critical points. To be concrete, by employing numerical exact diagonalization
and analytical methods, we calculate the quantum metric and corresponding order
parameters in various non-Hermitian models, which include two non-Hermitian
generalized Aubry-Andr\'{e} models and non-Hermitian cluster and mixed-field
Ising models. We demonstrate that the quantum metric of eigenstates in these
non-Hermitian models exactly identifies the localization transitions, mobility
edges, and many-body quantum phase transitions, respectively. We further show
that this strategy is robust against the finite-size effect and different
boundary conditions.

To realize a global quantum Internet, there is a need for communication
between quantum subnetworks. To accomplish this task, there have been multiple
design proposals for a quantum backbone network and quantum subnetworks. In
this work, we elaborate on the design that uses entanglement and quantum
teleportation to build the quantum backbone between packetized quantum
networks. We design a network interface to interconnect packetized quantum
networks with entanglement-based quantum backbone networks and, moreover,
design a scheme to accomplish data transmission over this hybrid quantum
network model. We analyze the use of various implementations of the backbone
network, focusing our study on backbone networks that use satellite links to
continuously distribute entanglement resources. For feasibility, we analyze
various system parameters via simulation to benchmark the performance of the
overall network.

Victor Hugo's timeless observation, "Nothing is more powerful than an idea
whose time has come", resonates today as Quantum Computing, once only a dream
of a physicist, stands at the threshold of reality with the potential to
revolutionise the world. To comprehend the surge of attention it commands
today, one must delve into the motivations that birthed and nurtured Quantum
Computing. While the past of Quantum Computing provides insights into the
present, the future could unfold through the lens of Quantum Software
Engineering. Quantum Software Engineering, guided by its principles and
methodologies investigates the most effective ways to interact with Quantum
Computers to unlock their true potential and usher in a new era of
possibilities. To gain insight into the present landscape and anticipate the
trajectory of Quantum Computing and Quantum Software Engineering, this paper
embarks on a journey through their evolution and outlines potential directions
for future research. By doing so, we aim to equip readers (ideally software
engineers and computer scientists not necessarily with quantum expertise) with
the insights necessary to navigate the ever-evolving landscape of Quantum
Computing and anticipate the trajectories that lie ahead.

Among various quantum machine learning (QML) algorithms, the quantum kernel
method has especially attracted attention due to its compatibility with noisy
intermediate-scale quantum devices and its potential to achieve quantum
advantage. This method performs classification and regression by nonlinearly
mapping data into quantum states in a higher dimensional Hilbert space. Thus
far, the quantum kernel method has been implemented only on qubit-based
systems, but continuous-variable (CV) systems can potentially offer superior
computational power by utilizing its infinite-dimensional Hilbert space. Here,
we demonstrate the implementation of the classification task with the CV
quantum kernel method on a programmable photonic quantum processor. We
experimentally prove that the CV quantum kernel method successfully classifies
several datasets robustly even under the experimental imperfections, with high
accuracies comparable to the classical kernel. This demonstration sheds light
on the utility of CV quantum systems for QML and should stimulate further study
in other CV QML algorithms.

Advancing quantum sensing tools for investigating systems at atomic and
nanoscales is crucial for the progress of quantum technologies. While numerous
protocols employ quantum probes to extract information from stationary or
weakly coupled environments, the challenges intensify at atomic- and
nano-scales where the environment is inherently out-of-equilibrium or strongly
coupled with the sensor. We here prove that the time-reversal symmetry in the
quantum-sensor control dynamics is broken, when partial information is probed
from an environment that is out-of-equilibrium with non stationary fluctuations
or is described by quantum non-Gaussian, strongly coupled environmental
correlations. We exploit this phenomenon as a quantum sensing paradigm with
proof-of principle experimental quantum simulations using solid-state nuclear
magnetic resonance (NMR). This introduces a signal contrast on a qubit-probe
that quantifies how far the sensed environment is from equilibrium or its
quantum non-Gaussian nature. Protocols are also presented to discern and filter
a variety of environmental properties including stationary, non-stationary and
non-Gaussian quantum noise fluctuations as a step toward sensing the ubiquitous
environments of a quantum-sensor at atomic and nanoscales.

Model-checking techniques have been extended to analyze quantum programs and
communication protocols represented as quantum Markov chains, an extension of
classical Markov chains. To specify qualitative temporal properties, a
subspace-based quantum temporal logic is used, which is built on Birkhoff-von
Neumann atomic propositions. These propositions determine whether a quantum
state is within a subspace of the entire state space. In this paper, we propose
the measurement-based linear-time temporal logic MLTL to check quantitative
properties. MLTL builds upon classical linear-time temporal logic (LTL) but
introduces quantum atomic propositions that reason about the probability
distribution after measuring a quantum state. To facilitate verification, we
extend the symbolic dynamics-based techniques for stochastic matrices described
by Agrawal et al. (JACM 2015) to handle more general quantum linear operators
(super-operators) through eigenvalue analysis. This extension enables the
development of an efficient algorithm for approximately model checking a
quantum Markov chain against an MLTL formula. To demonstrate the utility of our
model-checking algorithm, we use it to simultaneously verify linear-time
properties of both quantum and classical random walks. Through this
verification, we confirm the previously established advantages discovered by
Ambainis et al. (STOC 2001) of quantum walks over classical random walks and
discover new phenomena unique to quantum walks.

We give an elementary introduction to the notion of quantum entanglement
between distinguishable parties and review a recent proposal about solid state
quantum computation with spin-qubits in quantum dots. The indistinguishable
character of the electrons whose spins realize the qubits gives rise to further
entanglement-like quantum correlations. We summarize recent results concerning
this type of quantum correlations of indistinguishable particles.

In this paper we review recent progress in studying quantum phase transitions
in one- and two-component Bose-Einstein condensates (BEC) in optical lattices.
These phase transitions involve the emergence and disappearance of quantum
coherence over whole optical lattice and of linear superposition of macroscopic
quantum states. The latter may provide new means to engineer and to manipulate
novel macroscopic quantum states and novel coherent atomic beams for quantum
information processing, quantum computing etc.

A quantum Smoluchowski equation is put forward that consistently describes
thermal quantum states. In particular, it notably does not induce a violation
of the second law of thermodynamics. This so modified kinetic equation is
applied to study {\it analytically} directed quantum transport at strong
friction in arbitrarily shaped ratchet potentials that are driven by nonthermal
two-state noise. Depending on the mutual interplay of quantum tunneling and
quantum reflection these quantum corrections can induce both, either a sizable
enhancement or a suppression of transport. Moreover, the threshold for current
reversals becomes markedly shifted due to such quantum fluctuations.

An ultrasmall quantum dot coupled to a lead and to a quantum box (a large
quantum dot) is investigated. Tuning the tunneling amplitudes to the lead and
box, we find a line of unstable non-Fermi-liquid fixed points as function of
the gate potentials of the quantum dots, extending to arbitrary charging
energies on the small and large quantum dots. These quantum-critical fixed
points possess a finite residual entropy. They govern the cross over from one
Fermi-liquid regime to another, characterized by distinct (high and low)
conductance values.

We systematically investigate how to quantize a transmission line resonator
(TLR) in a mesoscopic electrical circuits in the presence of the resistance and
the conductance of the dielectric media. Developed from the quantum bath based
effective Hamiltonian method for single mode harmonic oscillator, the approach
we presented in this article is a microscopic theory integrating quantum
fluctuation-dissipation relation. To qualitatively check the condition under
which the TLR can behave as a quantum object we study the classical-quantum
boundary characterized by the standard quantum limit.

The basic problem of quantum cosmology is the definition of the quantum state
of the universe, with appropriate boundary conditions on Riemannian
three-geometries. This paper describes recent progress in the corresponding
analysis of quantum amplitudes for Euclidean Maxwell theory and linearized
gravity. Within the framework of Faddeev-Popov formalism and zeta-function
regularization, various choices of mixed boundary conditions lead to a deeper
understanding of quantized gauge fields and quantum gravity in the presence of
boundaries.

The quantum potential approach makes it possible to construct a complementary
picture of quantum mechanical evolution which reminds classical equation of
motion. The only difference as compared to equations of motion for the
underlying classical system is the presence of an additional potential term
being a functional of the real part of the wavefunction. In the present paper
this approach is applied to the quantum theory of gravity based on Wheeler --
De Witt equation. We describe the derivation of the `quantum Einstein equation'
and discuss the new features of their solutions.

We study and compare the decoherent histories approach, the
environment-induced decoherence and the localization properties of thesolutions
to the stochastic Schr\"{o}dinger equation in quantum jump simulationand
quantum state diffusion approaches, for a quantum two-level system model. We
show, in particular, that there is a close connection between the decoherent
histories and the quantum jump simulation, complementing a connection with the
quantum state diffusion approach noted earlier by Di\'{o}si, Gisin, Halliwell
and Percival. In the case of the decoherent histories analysis, the degree of
approximate decoherence is discussed in detail.

In this paper we have investigated the pure quantum solutions of Bohmian
quantum gravity. By pure quantum solution we mean a solution in which the
quantum potential cannot be ignored with respect to the classical potential,
especially in Bohmian quantum gravity we are interested in the case where these
two potentials are equal in their magnitude and in fact their sum is zero. Such
a solutions are obtained both using the perturbation and using the linear field
approximation.

We assume that space-time at the Planck scale is discrete, quantised in
Planck units and "qubitsed" (each pixel of Planck area encodes one qubit), that
is, quantum space-time can be viewed as a quantum computer. Within this model,
one finds that quantum space-time itself is entangled, and can quantum-evaluate
Boolean functions which are the laws of Physics in their discrete and
fundamental form.

We examine the singularity resolution issue in quantum gravity by studying a
new quantization of standard Friedmann-Robertson-Walker geometrodynamics. The
quantization procedure is inspired by the loop quantum gravity programme, and
is based on an alternative to the Schr\"odinger representation normally used in
metric variable quantum cosmology. We show that in this representation for
quantum geometrodynamics there exists a densely defined inverse scale factor
operator, and that the Hamiltonian constraint acts as a difference operator on
the basis states. We find that the cosmological singularity is avoided in the
quantum dynamics. We discuss these results with a view to identifying the
criteria that constitute "singularity resolution" in quantum gravity.

Spacetime undergoes quantum fluctuations, giving rise to spacetime foam,
a.k.a. quantum foam. We discuss some properties of spacetime foam, and point
out the conceptual interconnections in the physics of quantum foam, black
holes, and quantum computation. We also discuss the phenomenology of quantum
foam, and conclude that it may be difficult, but by no means impossible, to
detect its tiny effects in the not-too-distant future.

I briefly review the current status of quantum gravity. After giving some
general motivations for the need of such a theory, I discuss the main
approaches in quantizing general relativity: Covariant approaches (perturbation
theory, effective theory, and path integrals) and canonical approaches (quantum
geometrodynamics, loop quantum gravity). I then address quantum gravitational
aspects of string theory. This is followed by a discussion of black holes and
quantum cosmology. I end with some remarks on the observational status of
quantum gravity.

We investigate the possibility that a background independent quantum theory
of gravity is not a theory of quantum geometry. We provide a way for global
spacetime symmetries to emerge from a background independent theory without
geometry. In this, we use a quantum information theoretic formulation of
quantum gravity and the method of noiseless subsystems in quantum error
correction. This is also a method that can extract particles from a quantum
geometric theory such as a spin foam model.

The exotic quantum double and its universal R-matrix for quantum Yang-Baxter
equation are constructed in terms of Drinfeld's quantum double theory.As a new
quasi-triangular Hopf algebra, it is much different from those standard quantum
doubles that are the q-deformations for Lie algebras or Lie superalgebras. By
studying its representation theory,many-parameter representations of the exotic
quantum double are obtained with an explicit example associated with Lie
algebra $A_2$ .The multi-parameter R-matrices for the quantum Yang-Baxter
equation can result from the universal R-matrix of this exotic quantum double
and these representattions.

The algebraic formulation of the quantum group gauge models in the framework
of the $R$-matrix approach to the theory of quantum groups is given. We
consider gauge groups taking values in the quantum groups and noncommutative
gauge fields transformed as comodules under the coaction of the gauge quantum
group $ G_{q}$. Using this approach we construct the quantum deformations of
the topological Chern-Simons models, non-abelian gauge theories and the
Einstein gravity. The noncommutative fields in these models generate $
G_{q}$-covariant quantum algebras.

We introduce the notion of locally trivial quantum principal bundles. The
base space and total space are compact quantum spaces (unital
$C^{\star}$-algebras), the structure group is a compact matrix quantum group.
We prove that a quantum bundle admits sections if and only if it is trivial.
Using a quantum version of \v{C}ech cocycles, we obtain a reconstruction
theorem for quantum principal bundles. The classification of bundles over a
given quantum space as a base space is reduced to the corresponding problem,
but with an ordinary classical group playing the role of structure group. Some
explicit examples are considered.

In this paper which is the completion of [1], we construct the
$A_0(q)$-algebra of $Q$-meromorphic functions on the quantum plane. This is the
largest non-commutative, associative, $A_0(q)$-algebra of functions constructed
on the quantum plane. We also define the notion of quantum subsets of R$^2$
which is a generalization of the notion of quantum disc and charactrize some of
their properties. In the end we study the $Q$-homomorphisms of the quantum
plane.

After recalling briefly some basic properties of the quantum group $GL_q(2)$,
we study the quantum sphere $S_q^2$, quantum projective space $CP_q(N)$ and
quantum Grassmannians as examples of complex (K\"{a}hler) quantum manifolds.
The differential and integral calculus on these manifolds are discussed. It is
shown that many relations of classical projective geometry generalize to the
quantum case. For the case of the quantum sphere a comparison is made with A.
Connes' method.

In the present article, we construct a 2D formulation of quantum gravity in
the framework of a deterministic theory. In this context, a Quantum stationary
Hamilton-Jacobi equation is derived from the Klein- Gordon equation written in
the presence of a gravitational field. We show that this equation reduces to
the Quantum stationary Hamilton- Jacobi equation when the gravitational field
is not present in the 2D time-space. As a second step, we introduce the quantum
gravitational Lagrangian for the quantum motion of a particle moving in the
presence of a gravitational field. We, deduce the relationship between the
gravitational quantum conjugate momentum and the velocity of the particle.

This is a self-contained introduction to quantum Riemannian geometry based on
quantum groups as frame groups, and its proposed role in quantum gravity. Much
of the article is about the generalisation of classical Riemannian geometry
that arises naturally as the classical limit; a theory with nonsymmetric metric
and a skew version of metric compatibilty. Meanwhile, in quantum gravity a key
ingredient of our approach is the proposal that the differential structure of
spacetime is something that itself must be summed over or `quantised' as a
physical degree of freedom. We illustrate such a scheme for quantum gravity on
small finite sets.

The quantum supergroup OSPq(1|2n) is studied systematically. A Haar
functional is constructed, and an algebraic version of the Peter - Weyl theory
is extended to this quantum supergroup. Quantum homogeneous superspaces and
quantum homogeneous supervector bundles are defined following the strategy of
Connes' theory. Parabolic induction is developed by employing the quantum
homogeneous supervector bundles. Quantum Frobenius reciprocity and a
generalized Borel - Weil theorem are established for the induced
representations.

We consider quantum invariants of 3-manifolds associated with arbitrary
simple Lie algebras. Using the symmetry principle we show how to decompose the
quantum invariant as the product of two invariants, one of them is the
invariant corresponding to the projective group. We then show that the
projective quantum invariant is always an algebraic integer, if the quantum
parameter is a prime root of unity. We also show that the projective quantum
invariant of rational homology 3-spheres has a perturbative expansion a la
Ohtsuki. The presentation of the theory of quantum 3-manifold is
self-contained.

We investigate two-parameter quantum groups corresponding to the general
linear and special linear Lie algebras gl_n and sl_n. We show that these
quantum groups can be realized as Drinfel'd doubles of certain Hopf subalgebras
with respect to Hopf pairings. Using the Hopf pairing, we construct a
corresponding R-matrix and a quantum Casimir element. We discuss isomorphisms
among these quantum groups and connections with multiparameter quantum groups.

Covariance ties the noncommutative deformation of a space into a quantum
space closely to the deformation of the symmetry into a quantum symmetry.
Quantum deformations of enveloping algebras are governed by Drinfeld twists,
inner automorphisms which relate the deformed to the undeformed coproduct.
While Drinfeld twists naturally define a covariant star product on the space
algebra, this product is in general not associative and does not yield a
quantum space. It is reported that, nevertheless, there are certain Drinfeld
twists which realize the quantum plane, quantum Euclidean 4-space, and quantum
Minkowski space.

This is an exposition of some of the aspects of quantum computation and
quantum information that have connections with operator theory. After a brief
introduction, we discuss quantum algorithms. We outline basic properties of
quantum channels, or equivalently, completely positive trace preserving maps.
The main theorems for quantum error detection and correction are presented and
we conclude with a description of a particular passive method of quantum error
correction.

The two papers in this series analyze quantum invariant differential
operators for quantum symmetric spaces in the maximally split case. In this
paper, we complete the proof of a quantum version of Harish-Chandra's theorem:
There is a Harish-Chandra map which induces an isomorphism between the ring of
quantum invariant differential operators and a ring of Laurent polynomial
invariants with respect to the dotted action of the restricted Weyl group. We
find a particularly nice basis for the quantum invariant differential operators
that provides a new interpretation of difference operators associated to
Macdonald polynomials. Finally, we set the stage for a general quantum
counterpart to noncompact zonal spherical functions.

We describe irreducible representations, coherent states and star-products
for algebras of integrals of motions (symmetries) of two-dimensional resonance
oscillators. We demonstrate how the quantum geometry (quantum K\"ahler form,
metric, quantum Ricci form, quantum reproducing measure) arises in this
problem. We specifically study the distinction between the isotropic resonance
$1:1$ and the general $l:m$ resonance for arbitrary coprime $l,m$. Quantum
gyron is a dynamical system in the resonance algebra. We derive its Hamiltonian
in irreducible representations and calculate the semiclassical asymptotics of
the gyron spectrum via the quantum geometrical objects.

The right-quantum algebra was introduced recently by Garoufalidis, L\^e and
Zeilberger in their quantum generalization of the MacMahon master theorem. A
combinatorial proof of this identity due to Konvalinka and Pak, and also the
recent proof of the right-quantum Sylvester's determinant identity, make heavy
use of a bijection related to the first fundamental transformation on words
introduced by Foata. This paper makes explicit the connection between this
transformation and right-quantum linear algebra identities; applications
include a new combinatorial proof of the right-quantum matrix inverse theorem,
and two new results, the right-quantum Jacobi ratio theorem and a
generalization of the right-quantum MacMahon master thorem.

Quantum groupoids are a joint generalization of groupoids and quantum groups.
We propose a definition of a compact quantum groupoid that is based on the
theory of C*-algebras and Hilbert bimodules. The essential point is that
whenever one has a tensor product over the complex numbers in the theory of
quantum groups, one now uses a certain tensor product over the base algebra of
the quantum groupoid.

No quantum measurement can give full information on the state of a quantum
system; hence any quantum feedback control problem is neccessarily one with
partial observations, and can generally be converted into a completely observed
control problem for an appropriate quantum filter as in classical stochastic
control theory. Here we study the properties of controlled quantum filtering
equations as classical stochastic differential equations. We then develop
methods, using a combination of geometric control and classical probabilistic
techniques, for global feedback stabilization of a class of quantum filters
around a particular eigenstate of the measurement operator.

Qualitative features of the Manakov top are discussed for the classical and
quantum versions of the problem. Energy-momentum diagram for this integrable
classical problem and quantum joint spectrum of two commuting observables for
associated quantum problem are analyzed. It is demonstrated that the evolution
of the specially chosen quantum cell through the joint quantum spectrum can be
defined for paths which cross singular strata. The corresponding quantum
monodromy transformation is introduced.

It is shown that piecewise deterministic dissipative quantum dynamics in a
vector space with indefinite metric can lead to well defined, positive
probabilities. The case of quantum jumps on the Poincar'e disk is studied in
details, including results of numerical simulations of quantum fractals.
  Keywords: iterated function systems, dynamical semigroups, EEQT, indefinite
metric, quantum jumps, quantum measurement, non-commuting observables,
fractals, Poincare disk

A general noncommutative-geometric theory of principal bundles is presented.
Quantum groups play the role of structure groups. General quantum spaces play
the role of base manifolds. A differential calculus on quantum principal
bundles is studied. In particular, algebras of horizontal and verticalized
differential forms on the bundle are introduced and investigated. The formalism
of connections is developed. Operators of horizontal projection, covariant
derivative and curvature are constructed and analyzed. A quantum generalization
of classical Weil's theory of characteristic classes is sketched. Quantum
analogs of infinitesimal gauge transformations are studied. Illustrative
examples and constructions are presented.

The vector fields of the quantum Lie algebra are described for the quantum
groups $GL_q(N), SL_q(N)$ and $SO_q(N)$ as pseudodifferential operators on the
linear quantum spaces covariant under the corresponding quantum group. Their
expressions are simple and compact. It is pointed out that these vector fields
satisfy certain characteristic polynomial identities. The real forms $SU_q(N)$
and $SO_q(N,R)$ are discussed in detail.

We obtain the universal R-matrix of the non-standard quantum group associated
to the Alexander-Conway knot polynomial. We show further that this non-standard
quantum group is related to the super-quantum group $U_qgl(1|1)$ by a general
process of superization, which we describe. We also study a twisted variant of
this non-standard quantum group and obtain, as a result, a twisted version of
$U_qgl(1|1)$ as a $q$-supersymmetry of the exterior differential calculus of
any quantum plane of Hecke type, acting by mixing the bosonic $x_i$
co-ordinates and the forms $d x_i$.

A brief exposition of the general theory of characteristic classes of quantum
principal bundles is given. The theory of quantum characteristic classes
incorporates ideas of classical Weil theory into the conceptual framework of
non-commutative differential geometry. A purely cohomological interpretation of
the Weil homomorphism is given, together with a standard geometrical
interpretation via quantum invariant polynomials. A natural spectral sequence
is described. Some quantum phenomena appearing in the formalism are discussed.

Quantum Lie algebras are generalizations of Lie algebras whose structure
constants are power series in $h$. They are derived from the quantized
enveloping algebras $\uqg$. The quantum Lie bracket satisfies a generalization
of antisymmetry. Representations of quantum Lie algebras are defined in terms
of a generalized commutator.
  In this paper the recent general results about quantum Lie algebras are
introduced with the help of the explicit example of $(sl_2)_h$.

Drinfeld gave a current realization of the quantum affine algebras as a Hopf
algebra with a simple comultiplication for the quantum current operators. In
this paper, we will present a generalization of such a realization of quantum
Hopf algebras. As a special case, we will choose the structure functions for
this algebra to be elliptic functions to derive certain elliptic quantum groups
as a Hopf algebra, which degenerates into quantum affine algebras if we take
certain degeneration of the structure functions.

The similarity transformations of quantum orthogonal groups are developed and
FRT theory is reformulated to the Cartesian basis. The quantum orthogonal
Cayley-Klein groups are introduced as the algebra functions over an associative
algebra with the nilpotent generators. The quantum orthogonal Cayley-Klein
algebras are obtained as the dual objects to the corresponding quantum groups.

The structure and representations of the quantum general linear supergroup
GLq(m|n) are studied systematically by investigating the Hopf superalgebra Gq
of its representative functions. Gq is factorized into $Gq^{\pi} Gq^{\bar\pi}$,
and a Peter - Weyl basis is constructed for each factor. Parabolic induction
for the quantum supergroup is developed. The underlying geometry of induced
representations is discussed, and an analog of Frobenius reciprocity is
obtained. A quantum Borel - Weil theorem is proven for the covariant and
contravariant tensorial irreps, and explicit realizations are given for classes
of tensorial irreps in terms of sections of quantum super vector bundles over
quantum projective superspaces.

It is shown that quantum homogeneous spaces of a quantum group H can be
viewed as fibres of quantum fibrations with the total space H that are dual to
coalgebra bundles. As concrete examples of such structures the fibrations with
the quantum 2-sphere and the quantum hyperboloid fibres are considered.

The well known incompatibility between inhomogeneous quantum groups and the
standard q-deformation is shown to disappear (at least in certain cases) when
admitting the quantum group to be braided. Braided quantum ISO(p,N-p)
containing SO_q(p,N-p) with |q|=1 are constructed for N=2p, 2p+1, 2p+2. Their
Poisson analogues (obtained first) are presented as an introduction to the
quantum case.

Recent progress in quantum cryptography and quantum computers has given hope
to their imminent practical realization. An essential element at the heart of
the application of these quantum systems is a quantum error correction scheme.
We propose a new technique based on the use of coding in order to detect and
correct errors due to imperfect transmission lines in quantum cryptography or
memories in quantum computers. We give a particular example of how to detect a
decohered qubit in order to transmit or preserve with high fidelity the
original qubit.

An explicit quantum circuit is given to implement quantum teleportation. This
circuit makes teleportation straightforward to anyone who believes that quantum
computation is a reasonable proposition. It could also be genuinely used inside
a quantum computer if teleportation is needed to move quantum information
around. An unusual feature of this circuit is that there are points in the
computation at which the quantum information can be completely disrupted by a
measurement (or some types of interaction with the environment) without ill
effects: the same final result is obtained whether or not these measurements
takes place.

Using a group theoretical approach we derive an equation of motion for a
mixed quantum-classical system. The quantum-classical bracket entering the
equation preserves the Lie algebra structure of quantum and classical
mechanics: The bracket is antisymmetric and satisfies the Jacobi identity, and,
therefore, leads to a natural description of interaction between quantum and
classical degrees of freedom. We apply the formalism to coupled quantum and
classical oscillators and show how various approximations, such as the
mean-field and the multiconfiguration mean-field approaches, can be obtained
from the quantum-classical equation of motion.

The effect of repetitive measurement for quantum dynamics of driven by an
intensive external force of the simple few-level systems as well as of the
multilevel systems that exhibit the quantum localisation of classical chaos is
investigated. Frequent measurement of the simple system yields to the quantum
Zeno effect while that of the suppressed quantum system, which classical
counterpart exhibits chaos, results in the delocalisation of the quantum
suppression. From the analysis we may conclude that continuously observable
quasiclassical system evolves essentially classically-like.

We show how to fully characterize a quantum process in an open quantum
system. We particularize the procedure to the case of a universal two-qubit
gate in a quantum computer. We illustrate the method with a numerical
simulation of a quantum gate in the ion trap quantum computer.

Active stabilisation of a quantum system is the active suppression of noise
(such as decoherence) in the system, without disrupting its unitary evolution.
Quantum error correction suggests the possibility of achieving this, but only
if the recovery network can suppress more noise than it introduces. A general
method of constructing such networks is proposed, which gives a substantial
improvement over previous fault tolerant designs. The construction permits
quantum error correction to be understood as essentially quantum state
synthesis. An approximate analysis implies that algorithms involving very many
computational steps on a quantum computer can thus be made possible.

Back reaction of the particle creation on the quantum tunneling process is
analyzed in real time formalism. We use quantum potential method in which whole
quantum dynamics is exactly projected to a classical Hamilton-Jacobi equation
with quantum corrections. We derive the reduction of the tunneling rate due to
this particle creation effect.

Quantum computers use the quantum interference of different computational
paths to enhance correct outcomes and suppress erroneous outcomes of
computations. A common pattern underpinning quantum algorithms can be
identified when quantum computation is viewed as multi-particle interference.
We use this approach to review (and improve) some of the existing quantum
algorithms and to show how they are related to different instances of quantum
phase estimation. We provide an explicit algorithm for generating any
prescribed interference pattern with an arbitrary precision.

The more than thirty years old issue of the information capacity of quantum
communication channels was dramatically clarified during the last period, when
a number of direct quantum coding theorems was discovered. To considerable
extent this progress is due to an interplay between the quantum communication
theory and quantum information ideas related to more recent development in
quantum computing. It is remarkable, however, that many probabilistic tools
underlying the treatment of quantum case have their roots, and in some cases
direct prototypes, in classical Shannon's theory. This paper presents an
outline of some basic ideas and results in that direction.

The possible effect of environment on the efficiency of a quantum algorithm
is considered explicitely. It is illustrated through the example of Shor's
prime factorization algorithm that this effect may be disastrous. The influence
of environment on quantum computation is probed on the basis of its analogy to
the problem of wave function collapse in quantum measurement.Techniques from
the Hepp-Colemen approach and its generalization are used to deal with
decoherence problems in quantum computation including dynamic mechanism of
decoherence, quantum error avoiding tricks and calculation of decoherence time.

We study the classical and quantum perturbation theory for two non--resonant
oscillators coupled by a nonlinear quartic interaction. In particular we
analyze the question of quantum corrections to the torus quantization of the
classical perturbation theory (semiclassical mechanics). We obtain up to the
second order of perturbation theory an explicit analytical formula for the
quantum energy levels, which is the semiclassical one plus quantum corrections.
We compare the "exact" quantum levels obtained numerically to the semiclassical
levels studying also the effects of quantum corrections.

A Quantum Computer is a new type of computer which can efficiently solve
complex problems such as prime factorization. A quantum computer threatens the
security of public key encryption systems because these systems rely on the
fact that prime factorization is computationally difficult. Errors limit the
effectiveness of quantum computers. Because of the exponential nature of
quantum com puters, simulating the effect of errors on them requires a vast
amount of processing and memory resources. In this paper we describe a parallel
simulator which accesses the feasibility of quantum computers. We also derive
and validate an analytical model of execution time for the simulator, which
shows that parallel quantum computer simulation is very scalable.

A general theory of quantum error avoiding codes is established, and new
light is shed on the relation between quantum error avoiding and correcting
codes. Quantum error avoiding codes are found to be a special type of highly
degenerate quantum error correcting codes. A combination of the ideas of
correcting and avoiding quantum errors may yield better codes. We give a
practical example.

We present a generalization of quantum teleportation that distributes quantum
information from a sender's $d$-level particle to $N_o$ particles held by
remote receivers via an initially shared multiparticle entangled state. This
entangled state functions as a multiparty quantum information distribution
channel between the sender and the receivers. The structure of the distribution
channel determines how quantum information is processed. Our generalized
teleportation scheme allows multiple receivers at arbitrary locations, and can
be used for applications such as optimal quantum information broadcasting,
asymmetric telecloning, and quantum error correction.

We discuss quantum dynamics in multi-dimensional non-linear systems. It is
well-known that wave functions are localized in a kicked rotor model. However,
coupling with other degrees of freedom breaks the localization. In order to
clarify the difference, we describe the quantum dynamics by deterministic rigid
trajectories, which are accompanied with the de Broglie-Bohm interpretation of
quantum mechanics, instead of wave functions. A bundle of quantum trajectories
are repulsive through quantum potential and flow never to go across each other.
We show that, according to the degrees of freedom, this same property appears
differently.

We study a two-spin quantum Turing architecture, in which discrete local
rotations \alpha_m of the Turing head spin alternate with quantum controlled
NOT-operations. Substitution sequences are known to underlie aperiodic
structures. We show that parameter inputs \alpha_m described by such sequences
can lead here to a quantum dynamics, intermediate between the regular and the
chaotic variant. Exponential parameter sensitivity characterizing chaotic
quantum Turing machines turns out to be an adequate criterion for induced
quantum chaos in a quantum network.

Candidates for quantum computing which offer only restricted control, e.g.,
due to lack of access to individual qubits, are not useful for general purpose
quantum computing. We present concrete proposals for the use of systems with
such limitations as RISQ - reduced instruction set quantum computers and
devices - for simulation of quantum dynamics, for multi-particle entanglement
and squeezing of collective spin variables. These tasks are useful in their own
right, and they also provide experimental probes for the functioning of quantum
gates in pre-mature proto-types of quantum computers.

How much information about the original state preparation can be extracted
from a quantum system which already has been measured? That is, how many
independent (non-communicating) observers can measure the quantum system
sequentially and give a nontrivial estimation of the original unknown state? We
investigate these questions and we show from a simple example that quantum
information is not entirely lost as a result of the measurement-induced
collapse of the quantum state, and that an infinite number of independent
observers who have no prior knowledge about the initial state can gain a
partial information about the original preparation of the quantum system.

A quantum key distribution protocol based on quantum encryption is presented
in this Brief Report. In this protocol, the previously shared
Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen pairs act as the quantum key to encode and decode the
classical cryptography key. The quantum key is reusable and the eavesdropper
cannot elicit any information from the particle Alice sends to Bob. The concept
of quantum encryption is also discussed.

The existence of entangled quantum states gives extra power to quantum
computers over their classical counterparts. Quantum entanglement shows up
qualitatively at the level of two qubits. We show that if no entanglement is
envolved then whatever one can do with qubits can also be done with classical
optical systems. We demonstrate that the one- and the two-bit Deutsch-Jozsa
algorithm does not require entanglement and can be mapped onto a classical
optical scheme. It is only for three and more input bits that the DJ algorithm
requires the implementation of entangling transformations and in these cases it
is impossible to implement this algorithm classically.

We show how quantum dynamics can be captured in the state of a quantum
system, in such a way that the system can be used to stochastically perform, at
a later time, the stored transformation perfectly on some other quantum system.
Thus programmable quantum gates for quantum information processing are feasible
if some probability of failure -that we show to decrease exponentially with the
size of the storing resources- is allowed.

We study effects of the physical realization of quantum computers on their
logical operation. Through simulation of physical models of quantum computer
hardware, we analyze the difficulties that are encountered in programming
physical realizations of quantum computers. Examples of logically identical
implementations of the controlled-NOT operation and Grover's database search
algorithm are used to demonstrate that the results of a quantum computation are
unstable with respect to the physical realization of the quantum computer. We
discuss the origin of these instabilities and discuss possibilities to overcome
this, for practical purposes, fundamental limitation of quantum computers.

We consider stability of a general quantum algorithm with respect to a fixed
but unknown residual interaction between qubits, and show a surprising fact,
namely that the average fidelity of quantum computation increases by decreasing
average time correlation function of the perturbing operator in sequences of
consecutive quantum gates. Our thinking is applied to the quantum Fourier
transformation where an alternative 'less regular' quantum algorithm is devised
which is qualitatively more robust against static random residual n-qubit
interaction.

This paper positively solves the quantum subroutine problem for fully quantum
oracles. The quantum subroutine problem asks whether a quantum computer with an
efficiently computable oracle can be efficiently simulated by a non-oracle
quantum computer. We extends the earlier results obtained by Bennett,
Bernstein, Brassard, and Vazirani, and by Aharonov, Kitaev, and Nisan to the
case where the oracle evaluates a unitary operator and the computer is allowed
to be in the superposition of a query state and a non-query state during
computation. We also prove the robustness of {\bf EQP}, {\bf BQP}, and {\bf
ZQP} under the above general formulation, extending the earlier results on the
robustness of {\bf BQP} shown by Bennett et al.

Relevance of key quantum information measures for analysis of quantum systems
is discussed. It is argued that possible ways of measuring quantum information
are based on compatibility/incompatibility of the quantum states of a quantum
system, resulting in the coherent information and introduced here the
compatible information measures, respectively. A sketch of an information
optimization of a quantum experimental setup is proposed.

Quantum baker`s map is a model of chaotic system. We study quantum dynamics
for the quantum baker's map. We use the Schack and Caves symbolic description
of the quantum baker`s map. We find an exact expression for the expectation
value of the time dependent position operator. A relation between quantum and
classical trajectories is investigated. Breakdown of the quantum-classical
correspondence at the logarithmic timescale is rigorously established.

Quantum trajectory theory, developed largely in the quantum optics community
to describe open quantum systems subjected to continuous monitoring, has
applications in many areas of quantum physics. In this paper I present a simple
model, using two-level quantum systems (q-bits), to illustrate the essential
physics of quantum trajectories and how different monitoring schemes correspond
to different ``unravelings'' of a mixed state master equation. I also comment
briefly on the relationship of the theory to the Consistent Histories formalism
and to spontaneous collapse models.

We continue the analysis of quantum-like description of market phenomena and
economics. We show that it is possible to define a risk inclination operator
acting in some Hilbert space that has a lot of common with quantum description
of the harmonic oscillator. The approach has roots in the recently developed
quantum game theory and quantum computing. A quantum anthropic principle is
formulated

So far proposed quantum computers use fragile and environmentally sensitive
natural quantum systems. Here we explore the notion that synthetic quantum
systems suitable for quantum computation may be fabricated from smart
nanostructures using topological excitations of a neural-type network that can
mimic natural quantum systems. These developments are a technological
application of process physics which is a semantic information theory of
reality in which space and quantum phenomena are emergent.

Quantum teleportation strikingly underlines the peculiar features of the
quantum world. We present an experimental proof of its quantum nature,
teleporting an entangled photon with such high quality that the nonlocal
quantum correlations with its original partner photon are preserved. This
procedure is also known as entanglement swapping. The nonlocality is confirmed
by observing a violation of Bell's inequality by 4.5 standard deviations. Thus,
by demonstrating quantum nonlocality for photons that never interacted our
results directly confirm the quantum nature of teleportation.

The phase estimation algorithm, which is at the heart of a variety of quantum
algorithms, including Shor's factoring algorithm, allows a quantum computer to
accurately determine an eigenvalue of an unitary operator. Quantum
nondemolition measurements are a quantum mechanical procedure, used to overcome
the standard quantum limit when measuring an observable. We show that the phase
estimation algorithm, in both the discrete and continuous variable setting, can
be viewed as a quantum nondemolition measurement.

Using Liouville space and superoperator formalism we consider pure stationary
states of open and dissipative quantum systems. We discuss stationary states of
open quantum systems, which coincide with stationary states of closed quantum
systems. Open quantum systems with pure stationary states of linear oscillator
are suggested. We consider stationary states for the Lindblad equation. We
discuss bifurcations of pure stationary states for open quantum systems which
are quantum analogs of classical dynamical bifurcations.

A strategy is suggested for teaching mathematically literate students, with
no background in physics, just enough quantum mechanics for them to understand
and develop algorithms in quantum computation and quantum information theory.
Although the article as a whole addresses teachers of physics, well versed in
quantum mechanics, the central pedagogical development is addressed directly to
computer scientists and mathematicians, with only occasional asides to their
teacher. Physicists uninterested in quantum pedagogy may be amused (or
irritated) by some of the views of standard quantum mechanics that arise
naturally from this unorthodox perspective.

We develop a systematic approach to quantum probability as a theory of
rational betting in quantum gambles. In these games of chance the agent is
betting in advance on the outcomes of several (finitely many) incompatible
measurements. One of the measurements is subsequently chosen and performed and
the money placed on the other measurements is returned to the agent. We show
how the rules of rational betting imply all the interesting features of quantum
probability, even in such finite gambles. These include the uncertainty
principle and the violation of Bell's inequality among others. Quantum gambles
are closely related to quantum logic and provide a new semantics to it. We
conclude with a philosophical discussion on the interpretation of quantum
mechanics.

A quantum information processing scheme is proposed with semiconductor
quantum dots located in a high-Q single mode QED cavity. The spin degrees of
freedom of one excess conduction electron of the quantum dots are employed as
qubits. Excitonic states, which can be produced ultrafastly with optical
operation, are used as auxiliary states in the realization of quantum gates. We
show how properly tailored ultrafast laser pulses and Pauli-blocking effects,
can be used to achieve a universal encoded quantum computing.

Basic quantum information measures involved in the information analysis of
quantum systems are considered. It is shown that the main quantum information
measurement methods depend on whether the corresponding quantum events are
compatible or incompatible. For purely quantum channels, the coherent and
compatible information measures, which are qualitatively different, can be
distinguished. A general information scheme is proposed for a quantum-physical
experiment. In this scheme, informational optimization of an experimental setup
is formulated as a mathematical problem.

We present two methods for the construction of quantum circuits for quantum
error-correcting codes (QECC). The underlying quantum systems are tensor
products of subsystems (qudits) of equal dimension which is a prime power. For
a QECC encoding k qudits into n qudits, the resulting quantum circuit has
O(n(n-k)) gates. The running time of the classical algorithm to compute the
quantum circuit is O(n(n-k)^2).

Quantum optical phenomena are explored in artificial atoms well known as
semiconductor quantum dots, in the presence of excitons and biexcitons. The
analytical results are obtained using the conventional time-dependent
perturbation technique. Numerical estimations are made for arealistic sample of
CdS quantum dots in a high-Q cavity. Quantum optical phenomena such as quantum
Rabi oscillations, photon statistics and collapse and revival of population
inversion in exciton and biexciton states are observed. In the presence of
biexcitons the collapse and revival phenomenon becomes faster due to the strong
coupling of biexciton with cavity field.

The concept of number is fundamental to the formulation of any physical
theory. We give a heuristic motivation for the reformulation of Quantum
Mechanics in terms of non-standard real numbers called Quantum Real Numbers.
The standard axioms of quantum mechanics are re-interpreted. Our aim is to show
that, when formulated in the language of quantum real numbers, the laws of
quantum mechanics appear more natural, less counterintuitive than when they are
presented in terms of standard numbers.

We present an introduction to coined quantum walks on regular graphs, which
have been developed in the past few years as an alternative to quantum Fourier
transforms for underpinning algorithms for quantum computation. We then
describe our results on the effects of decoherence on these quantum walks on a
line, cycle and hypercube. We find high sensitivity to decoherence, increasing
with the number of steps in the walk, as the particle is becoming more
delocalised with each step. However, the effect of a small amount of
decoherence can be to enhance the properties of the quantum walk that are
desirable for the development of quantum algorithms, such as fast mixing times
to uniform distributions.

We present an all-optical implementation of quantum computation using
semiconductor quantum dots. Quantum memory is represented by the spin of an
excess electron stored in each dot. Two-qubit gates are realized by switching
on trion-trion interactions between different dots. State selectivity is
achieved via conditional laser excitation exploiting Pauli exclusion principle.
Read-out is performed via a quantum-jump technique. We analyze the effect on
our scheme's performance of the main imperfections present in real quantum
dots: exciton decay, hole mixing and phonon decoherence. We introduce an
adiabatic gate procedure that allows one to circumvent these effects, and
evaluate quantitatively its fidelity.

We propose a parallel quantum computing mode for ensemble quantum computer.
In this mode, some qubits can be in pure states while other qubits in mixed
states. It enables a single ensemble quantum computer to perform
$"$single-instruction-multi-data" type of parallel computation. In Grover's
algorithm and Shor's algorithm, parallel quantum computing can provide
additional speedup. In addition, it also makes a fuller use of qubit resources
in an ensemble quantum computer. As a result, some qubits discarded in the
preparation of an effective pure state in the Schulman-Varizani, and the
Cleve-DiVincenzo algorithms can be re-utilized.

Although entanglement is widely recognized as one of the most fascinating
characteristics of quantum mechanics, nonlocality remains to be a big
labyrinth. The proof of existence of nonlocality is as yet not much convincing
because of its strong reliance on Bell's theorem where the assumption of
realism weakens the proof. We demonstrate that entanglement and quantum
nonlocality are two equivalent aspects of the same quantum wholeness for
spacelike separated quantum systems. This result implies that quantum mechanics
is indeed a nonlocal theory and lays foundation of understanding quantum
nonlocality beyond Bell's theorem.

A novel technique is devised to perform orthogonal state quantum key
distribution. In this scheme, entangled parts of a quantum information carrier
are sent from Alice to Bob through two quantum channels. However before the
transmission, the orders of the quantum information carrier in one channel is
reordered so that Eve can not steal useful information. At the receiver's end,
the order of the quantum information carrier is restored. The order
rearrangement operation in both parties is controlled by a prior shared control
key which is used repeatedly in a quantum key distribution session.

An expression is derived characterizing the set of admissible rate pairs for
simultaneous transmission of classical and quantum information over a given
quantum channel, generalizing both the classical and quantum capacities of the
channel. Although our formula involves regularization, i.e. taking a limit over
many copies of the channel, it reduces to a single-letter expression in the
case of generalized dephasing channels. Analogous formulae are conjectured for
the simultaneous public-private capacity of a quantum channel and for the
simultaneously 1-way distillable common randomness and entanglement of a
bipartite quantum state.

Using Liouville space and superoperator formalism we consider pure stationary
states of open and dissipative quantum systems. We discuss stationary states of
open quantum systems, which coincide with stationary states of closed quantum
systems. Open quantum systems with pure stationary states of linear oscillator
are suggested. We consider stationary states for the Lindblad equation. We
discuss bifurcations of pure stationary states for open quantum systems which
are quantum analogs of classical dynamical bifurcations.

Many previous works on quantum photolithography are based on
maximally-entangled states (MES). In this paper, we generalize the MES quantum
photolithography to the case where two light beams share a $N$-photon
nonmaximally-entangled state. we investigate the correlations between quantum
entanglement and quantum photolithography. It is shown that for nonlocal
entanglement between the two light beams the amplitude of the deposition rate
can be changed through varying the degree of entanglement described by an
entanglement angle while the resolution remains unchanged, and found that for
local entanglement between the two light beams the effective Rayleigh
resolution of quantum photolithography can be resonantly enhanced.

We consider the quantum computational process as viewed by an insider
observer: this is equivalent to an isomorphism between the quantum computer and
a quantum space, namely the fuzzy sphere. The result is the formulation of a
reversible quantum measurement scheme, with no hidden information.

We review both the Einstein, Podolsky, Rosen (EPR) paper about the
completeness of quantum theory, and Schrodinger's responses to the EPR paper.
We find that both the EPR paper and Schrodinger's responses, including the cat
paradox, are not consistent with the current understanding of quantum theory
and thermodynamics.
  Because both the EPR paper and Schrodinger's responses play a leading role in
discussions of the fascinating and promising fields of quantum computation and
quantum information, we hope our review will be helpful to researchers in these
fields.

It is von Neumann who opened the window for today's Information epoch. He
defined quantum entropy including Shannon's information more than 20 years
ahead of Shannon, and he introduced a concept what computation means
mathematically. In this paper I will report two works that we have recently
done, one of which is on quantum algorithum in generalized sense solving the
SAT problem (one of NP complete problems) and another is on quantum mutual
entropy properly describing quantum communication processes.

Ordinary approach to quantum algorithm is based on quantum Turing machine or
quantum circuits. It is known that this approach is not powerful enough to
solve NP-complete problems. In this paper we study a new approach to quantum
algorithm which is a combination of the ordinary quantum algorithm with a
chaotic dynamical system. We consider the satisfiability problem as an example
of NP-complete problems and argue that the problem, in principle, can be solved
in polynomial time by using our new quantum algorithm.

The spin network simulator model represents a bridge between (generalised)
circuit schemes for standard quantum computation and approaches based on
notions from Topological Quantum Field Theories (TQFTs). The key tool is
provided by the fiber space structure underlying the model which exhibits
combinatorial properties closely related to SU(2) state sum models, widely
employed in discretizing TQFTs and quantum gravity in low spacetime dimensions.

We devise a new technique to enhance transmission of quantum information
through linear optical quantum information processors. The idea is based on
applying the Quantum Zeno effect to the process of photon absorption. By
frequently monitoring the presence of the photon through a QND (quantum
non-demolition) measurement the absorption is suppressed. Quantum information
is encoded in the polarization degrees of freedom and is therefore not affected
by the measurement. Some implementations of the QND measurement are proposed.

Quantum Fourier transform is of primary importance in many quantum
algorithms. In order to eliminate the destructive effects of decoherence
induced by couplings between the quantum system and its environment, we propose
a robust scheme for quantum Fourier transform over the intrinsic
decoherence-free subspaces. The scheme is then applied to the circuit design of
quantum Fourier transform over quantum networks under collective decoherence.
The encoding efficiency and possible improvements are also discussed.

Fundamental limits on the controllability of quantum mechanical systems are
discussed in the light of quantum information theory. It is shown that the
amount of entropy-reduction that can be extracted from a quantum system by
feedback controller is upper bounded by a sum of the decrease of entropy
achievable in open-loop control and the mutual information between the quantum
system and the controller. This upper bound sets a fundamental limit on the
performance of any quantum controllers whose designs are based on the
possibilities to attain low entropy states. An application of this approach
pertaining to quantum error correction is also discussed.

In 2003, Bechmann-Pasquinucci introduced the concept of quantum seals, a
quantum analogue to wax seals used to close letters and envelopes. Since then,
some improvements on the method have been found. We first review the current
quantum sealing techniques, then introduce and discuss potential applications
of quantum message sealing, and conclude with some discussion of the
limitations of quantum seals.

We show that universal quantum logic can be achieved using only linear optics
and a quantum shutter device. With these elements, we design a quantum memory
for any number of qubits and a CNOT gate which are the basis of a universal
quantum computer. An interaction-free model for a quantum shutter is given.

We report an experimental realization of bit-flip error rejection for
error-free transfer of quantum information through a noisy quantum channel. In
the experiment, an unknown state to be transmitted is encoded into a two-photon
entangled state, which is then sent through an engineered noisy quantum
channel. At the final stage, the unknown state is decoded by a quantum parity
measurement, successfully rejecting the erroneous transmission over the noisy
quantum channel.

The impossibility to clone an unknown quantum state is a powerful principle
to understand the nature of quantum mechanics, especially within the context of
quantum computing and quantum information. This principle has been generalized
to quantitative statements as to what extent imperfect cloning is possible. We
delineate an aspect of the border between the possible and the impossible
concerning quantum cloning, by putting forward an entanglement-assisted scheme
for simulating perfect cloning in the context of weak measurements. This
phenomenon we call weak cloning of an unknown quantum state.

Quantum branching programs (quantum binary decision diagrams, respectively)
are a convenient tool for examining quantum computations using only a
logarithmic amount of space. Recently several types of restricted quantum
branching programs have been considered, e. g. read--once quantum branching
programs. This paper considers quantum ordered binary decision diagrams
(QOBDDs) and answers the question: How does the computational power of QOBDDs
increase, if we allow repeated tests. Additionally it is described how to
synthesize QOBDDs according to Boolean operations.

The maximum distance of quantum communication is limited due to the photon
loss and detector noise. Exploiting entanglement swapping, quantum relay could
offer ways to extend the achievable distance by increasing the signal to noise
ratio. In this letter we present an experimental simulation of long distance
quantum communication, in which the superiority of quantum relay is
demonstrated. Assisted by quantum relay, we greatly extend the distance limit
of unconditional secure quantum communication.

We generalize the definition of quantum Anosov properties and the related
Lyapunov exponents to the case of quantum systems driven by a classical flow,
i.e. skew-product systems. We show that the skew Anosov properties can be
interpreted as regular Anosov properties in an enlarged Hilbert space, in the
framework of a generalized Floquet theory. This extension allows us to describe
the hyperbolicity properties of almost-periodic quantum parametric oscillators
and we show that their upper Lyapunov exponents are positive and equal to the
Lyapunov exponent of the corresponding classical parametric oscillators. As
second example, we show that the configurational quantum cat system satisfies
quantum Anosov properties.

Recent research in multi-valued logic for quantum computing has shown
practical advantages for scaling up a quantum computer. Multivalued quantum
systems have also been used in the framework of quantum cryptography, and the
concept of a qudit cluster state has been proposed by generalizing the qubit
cluster state. An evolutionary algorithm based synthesizer for ternary quantum
circuits has recently been presented, as well as a synthesis method based on
matrix factorization.In this paper, a recursive synthesis method for ternary
quantum circuits based on the Cosine-Sine unitary matrix decomposition is
presented.

The symplectic structure of quantum commutators is first unveiled and then
exploited to introduce generalized non-Hamiltonian brackets in quantum
mechanics. It is easily recognized that quantum-classical systems are described
by a particular realization of such a bracket. In light of previous work, this
introduces a unified approach to classical and quantum-classical
non-Hamiltonian dynamics. In order to illustrate the use of non-Hamiltonian
commutators, it is shown how to define thermodynamic constraints in
quantum-classical systems. In particular, quantum-classical Nos\'e-Hoover
equations of motion and the associated stationary density matrix are derived.
The non-Hamiltonian commutators for both Nos\'e-Hoover chains and
Nos\'e-Andersen (constant-pressure constant temperature) dynamics are also
given. Perspectives of the formalism are discussed.

